                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 17-3299)

3299.1. As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Act &#8211; The Second Omnibus Regulatory Reform Act of 1998, effective April
   20, 1999 (D.C. Law 12-261; D.C. Official Code § 47-2853.01 et seq.) (2001).
   
   
   
   Aesthetic planning &#8211; The selection of colors, materials, and finishes to
   appropriately convey the design concept, and to meet socio-psychological,
   functional, maintenance, life-cycle performance, environmental, and safety
   requirements.
   
   
   
   Applicant &#8211; A person who has submitted an application for licensure to
   the Board. Board &#8211; The Board of Architecture and Interior Designers, as
   established by the Act.
   
   
   
   Building shell &#8211; The architecture of an existing building, including the
   framework, the perimeter/exterior walls, the building core and columns, and
   other structural, load-bearing elements of the building.
   
   
   
   Contact hour &#8211; A period of sixty (60) minutes of instruction in a
   continuing education program. One (1) contact hour equals one tenth (0.1) of a
   continuing education unit.
   
   
   
   Construction documents &#8211; The detailed drawings that define the work to
   be constructed. This may include partition plans, power and communications
   plans, reflected ceiling plans, material and finishes plans, and furniture
   layout plans, as well as elevations, sections and details, along with the
   drawings of associated consultants.
   
   
   
   Consultations &#8211; Research and analysis of the client&#8217;s goals and
   requirements, and the development of documents, drawings, and diagrams that
   outline those needs.
   
   
   
   Design analysis &#8211; Building design based on systematic, behavioral, or
   user criteria, rather than intuitively developed notions of what is required.
   
   
   
   Electronic signature – A digital authentication process which is attached
   to, or logically associated with, an electronic document.
   
   
   
   Environmental &#8211; The aggregate of the physical conditions of the interior
   environment that affects the health and safety of the occupants, including air
   quality and circulation, temperature control, ergonomic layout, physical
   circulation plan, and related matters.
   
   
   
   IDCEC &#8211; The Interior Design Continuing Education Council.
   
   
   
   Interior design &#8211; A multi-faceted profession in which creative and
   technical solutions are applied within a structure to achieve a built interior
   environment. These solutions are functional, enhance the quality of life and
   culture of the occupants, and are aesthetically attractive. Designs are
   created in response to and coordinated with the building shell, and
   acknowledge the physical location and social context of the project. Designs
   must adhere to code and regulatory requirements, and encourage the principles
   of environmental sustainability. The interior design process follows a
   systematic and coordinated methodology, including research, analysis, and
   integration of knowledge into the creative process, whereby the needs and
   resources of the client are satisfied to produce an interior space that
   fulfills the project goals.
   
   
   
   Licensed interior designer &#8211; A person licensed to practice interior
   design under this chapter who is qualified by education, experience, and
   examination to affect the function, safety and quality of interior spaces and
   who renders or offers to render interior design services.
   
   
   
   Maintenance &#8211; The ability of a product or material to be kept to its
   proper condition, and the work required to sustain that condition over the
   life of that material.
   
   
   
   Manual signature – The handwritten name of a person applied to a document
   that identifies the person, serves as a means of authentication of the
   contents of the document, and provides responsibility for the creation of the
   document and accountability for the contents of the document.
   
   
   
   National examination &#8211; The examination administered by the National
   Council for Interior Design Qualification.
   
   
   
   NCIDQ &#8211; The National Council for Interior Design Qualification.
   
   
   
   Partition &#8211; A wall that does not support a vertical load of a structure
   other than its own weight, but that may support loads attached to it such as
   cabinetry, shelving, or grab bars; and that does not extend further than from
   the floor of an interior area of a structure designed for human habitation or
   occupancy to the underside of the deck of that structure.
   
   
   
   Programming &#8211; The scope of work which includes conducting research;
   identifying and analyzing the needs and goals of the client or occupant of the
   space; evaluating existing documentation and conditions; assessing project
   resources and limitations; identifying life, safety, and code requirements;
   and developing project schedules and budgets.
   
   
   
   Reflected ceiling plan &#8211; A ceiling design that illustrates a ceiling as
   if it was projected downward and may include lighting and other elements.
   
   
   
   Responsible supervisory control &#8211; The direct responsibility for
   supervision by a licensed interior designer of the work and the decision
   making process, i.e., to review, enforce, and control compliance with all
   design criteria and life safety requirements. Each location designated for the
   practice of interior design must have a licensed interior designer who shall
   bear the regulatory responsibility for any interior design work at that
   location. This licensed interior designer must provide responsible supervisory
   control over any non-licensed persons working in the practice of interior
   design at that location.
   
   
   
   Signature – Includes manual signature or electronic signature.
   
   
   
   Space planning &#8211; The analysis and design of spatial and occupancy
   requirements, including space layouts and final planning.
   
   
   
   Specifications &#8211; The detailed written description of construction,
   workmanship, and materials of the work to be undertaken.
   
   
   
   Sustainability &#8211; The use of resources in such a way that they are not
   depleted; a method of practice or use of materials that is capable of being
   continued with minimal long-term effect on the environment.

   3299.2. The definitions in § 3399 of Chapter 33 of this Title are
   incorporated by reference and are applicable to this chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 5441 (May 9, 2008); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 9963, 9965 (August 17, 2012).
