                                  DC REGULATIONS

TIME LIMITATIONS (§ 19-3203)

3203.1. The Commission, upon request reasonably describing a Commission
   record, shall within ten (10) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
   public holidays) of the receipt of any such request either make the requested
   record accessible or notify the requestor of its determination not to make the
   requested record or any part thereof accessible and the reasons therefor.

   3203.2. In unusual circumstances, the time limit prescribed herein may be
   extended by written notice to the requestor setting forth the reasons for the
   extension and the expected date for determination. Such extension shall not
   exceed ten days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays). For
   purposes of this chapter, and only to the extent necessary for processing of
   the particular request, “unusual circumstances” are limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous
   amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single
   request; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable
   speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination
   of the request or among two or more components of the agency having
   substantial subject matter interest therein.

   3203.3. If no determination has been dispatched at the end of the ten day
   period, or the extension thereof, the requestor may deem the request denied,
   and exercise a right of appeal in accordance with this chapter. Any person
   requesting a record of the Commission shall be deemed to have exhausted
   his/her administrative remedies unless such person chooses to petition the
   Commission Board of Directors in accordance with this chapter.

   3203.4. When no determination can be dispatched within the applicable time
   limit, the Commission shall continue to process the request. Upon expiration
   of the time limit, the requestor shall be notified in writing of the reason
   for the delay, the date on which the determination may be expected, and
   his/her right to treat the delay as a denial and the appeal rights provided by
   the Act. The Commission may ask the requestor to forego appeal until a
   determination is made.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 5232, 5237 (September 15, 1995).
