                                  DC REGULATIONS

NAMING OF PUBLIC LIBRARY BUILDINGS (§ 19-808)

808.1. Library buildings shall be named by action of the Board of Library
   Trustees upon the written recommendation of the Director of the Public
   Library.

   808.2. No library building shall be named in honor of any living persons.

   808.3. No library building shall be named in honor of any deceased person
   until at least two (2) years after that person’s death.

   808.4. The official name of a library building that is named in honor of any
   person shall include the given name of that person as well as the surname of
   that person.

   808.5. Upon the receipt of a recommendation from the Director of the Public
   Library for the naming of a library building, the Board of Library Trustees
   shall refer the recommendation to the proper committee for consideration in
   public session and recommend to the full Board.

   808.6. Upon receipt of the recommendation from the committee, the Board shall
   take proposed action to name or rename the library building.

   808.7. Notice of proposed action shall be published in the D.C. Register for a
   period of not less than thirty (30) days prior to final action to name or
   rename the library building.

   808.8. Additional notice shall be given to the organized community in the area
   of the library buildings and shall be delivered to the press and media.

   808.9. The existing name of any library building may be changed upon the
   written recommendation of the Director of the Public Library and the action of
   the Board of Library Trustees pursuant to the procedures set forth in this
   section.

   808.10. Any person or organization may submit a proposed name or change of
   name of any library building to the Director of the Public Library for
   consideration; however, the Director shall not be required to submit any
   particular name or recommendation for change of name to the Board of Library
   Trustees.
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 1978-79 (April 15, 1994).
