                                  DC REGULATIONS

STREETSCAPE LOAN RELIEF FUND (§ 27-850)

850.1. The Department shall implement and administer the Streetscape Loan
   Relief  Fund (Streetscape Fund) established pursuant to section 603 of the
   Streetscape Fund Amendment Act of 2010 (Act), effective April 8, 2011 (D.C.
   Law 18-370; D.C. Official Code §§ 1-325.191, et seq.) (2011 Supp.)).  The
   Streetscape Fund is funded by annual appropriations to provide interest-free
   loans to any individual or entity that operates a retail business inside or
   adjoining a streetscape construction or rehabilitation project.

   850.2. Loans issued from the Streetscape Fund shall be made in the sole
   discretion of the Department.  The term “loan” includes a senior or
   subordinated secured or unsecured loan or a loan guarantee.  The term of a
   loan under this section shall not exceed five (5) years after the termination
   of the streetscape construction or rehabilitation project.  The Department
   may, in its discretion, outsource the loan underwriting process to a qualified
   non-profit organization or financial institution.

   850.3. To be eligible for a loan from the Streetscape Fund a recipient must:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be independently owned, operated, and controlled;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be licensed to operate the impacted retail business with the Department of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs;
   
   	(c)	Be in good standing with the Department of Consumer and Regulatory
   			Affairs;
   
   	       (d)	Have a Certificate of Clean Hands from the Office of Tax and
   Revenue or state that the loan will be used to pay back taxes due the Office
   of Tax and Revenue, and if a loan is granted for this purpose, direct the loan
   amount be paid directly to the Office of Tax and Revenue on behalf of the
   borrower; and
   
   	       (e)	Demonstrate financial hardship or debt resulting from, or
   accumulated during, the streetscape construction or rehabilitation in the
   District.

   850.4. The following are ineligible to receive funding from the Streetscape
   Fund:
   
   		(a) 	Street vendors; and
   
   		(b) 	Regional or national franchise businesses.

   850.5. The Department shall give preference for loans to: (i) eligible
   recipients that are certified pursuant to the Act as a Small Business
   Enterprise or Disadvantage Business Enterprise or Resident Owned Business; and
   (ii) eligible recipients that serve or whose principal office is located in a
   DC Main Streets corridor, a Neighborhood Investment Program Target Area, or
   another area identified by the Mayor for economic development or commercial
   revitalization.  The preference may be in the form of higher loan amounts or
   such other form as the Department may determine, in its discretion, best
   serves the goals and purposes of the Streetscape Fund.  The Department shall
   maintain and make available a list of such eligible target areas.

   850.6. An eligible recipient may use loan proceeds from the Streetscape Fund
   for the   following purposes:
   
   		(a)	Working capital;
   
   		(b) 	Inventory;
   
   		(c)	Repair of furniture, fixtures, machinery, or equipment;
   
   		(d)	Contract cash flow assistance;
   
   		(e)	Pay taxes due the Office of Tax and Revenue;
   
   	      (f) 	Pay overdue rent for lease of retail business space affected by
   the streetscape  construction or rehabilitation project;
   
   	      (g)	Pay overdue mortgage of retail business space affected by the
   streetscape construction or rehabilitation project;
   
   	      (h)	Pay other substantiated financial debt affecting the retail
   business derived from the streetscape construction or rehabilitation project;
   and
   
   	      (i)	Pay any fees or costs that may be assessed associated with the loan
   process under this section.

   850.7. The Department shall develop underwriting criteria and terms for loans
   issued from the Streetscape Fund.  Such criteria shall include, at minimum:
   
   (a)  	The maximum funding amount(s);
   
   (b) 	Term limits;
   
   (c)  	Security or collateral requirements; and
   
   (d) 	Any fees and costs that may be assessed for processing the loan.

   850.8. The Department shall include the underwriting criteria with the
   application and/or publish the underwriting criteria on its website.  The
   Department may modify the underwriting criteria as necessary to account for
   changes in budgeted amounts of the Streetscape Fund or changing needs of the
   local business community.  The Department may work with a qualified non-profit
   organization and/or financial institution to develop and/or modify as
   necessary the underwriting criteria.

   850.9. An eligible recipient seeking funding from the Streetscape Fund shall
   submit a written application to the Department on such form or forms as may be
   prescribed by the Department.  The application shall include, at a minimum,
   submission of the following documents and information:
   
   	     (a)        Clean Hands Certification from the Office of Tax and Revenue
   or statement that the loan sought will be used to pay outstanding taxes owed
   the Office of Tax and Revenue together with tax bills;
   
   	     (b) 	Certificate of Good Standing and license to operate the retail
   business from the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs;
   
   	     (c)	Financial status of the applicant including, but not limited to, tax
   returns, balance sheet(s), and profit and loss statements;
   
   	     (d) 	Amount of funding from the Streetscape Fund requested by the
   applicant;
   
   	     (e) 	Reason for requesting funding from the Streetscape Fund; and
   
   	     (f) 	Any other information or documents the Department may require in
   order to assess the applicant’s eligibility and/or credit worthiness.

   850.10. The Department, and/or any qualified non-profit organization or
   financial institution to which the Department has outsourced the underwriting
   process, shall review and evaluate an application for funding from the
   Streetscape Fund for completeness, underwriting analysis, and funding
   determination.  Incomplete applications shall be returned to the applicant.

   850.11. Within sixty (60) days of receipt of a complete application, the
   Department or its non-profit or financial institution partner shall notify the
   applicant whether the funding request has been approved, denied, or if
   additional information is needed to make a determination.  If an application
   is denied, the Department or its non-profit or financial institution partner
   shall provide the applicant with an explanation of the underwriting
   determination.
   
   
   
   		Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 7320
   (August 12, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published
   at 58 DCR 8782 (October 14, 2011).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   3
