                                  DC REGULATIONS

AGENCY EXPENDABLE BUDGETS; CERTIFIED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE EXPENDITURE (§ 27-830)

830.1 		The expendable budget of each agency, including an agency that
   contracts or procures in whole or in part through the Office of Contracting
   and Procurement, as defined in section 2302 of the Act, shall include the
   total budget of the agency, reduced by funding sources, object classes,
   objects, and other items identified by the agency and approved by the Director
   of the Department of Small and Local Business Development.

   830.2. Sixty (60) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the
   Department shall provide each agency with a list of the comptroller object
   codes that shall be excluded from the agency’s appropriated budget.

   830.3. No later than thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal
   year, each agency shall provide the dollar amount in each comptroller object
   code along with the amount of the total appropriated budget.

   830.4. No later than thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal
   year, each agency may request special exceptions under other comptroller
   object codes not included in the list provided by the Department for exclusion
   from the amount of the total appropriated budget for the agency.  If so
   requested, the agency must provide the comptroller source group, comptroller
   object code, a specific description of the expenditure, vendor name, and the
   dollar amount in each other comptroller object code.

   830.5. If an agency receives unanticipated funding, experiences a reduction in
   funding, or experiences any other change in circumstances that affects its
   expendable budget or special exceptions, then the agency shall communicate
   that change to the Department in writing and the Department shall adjust
   accordingly the expendable budget or special exceptions of the agency.

   830.6. The Department shall approve the special exceptions under subsection
   830.4 if no Small Business Enterprises can provide the required goods or
   services, the expenditure cannot be made to Small Business Enterprises because
   the goods or services are proprietary, the line item is not for goods or
   services, there are federal or other restrictions on how the funds may be
   expended, or the goods or services must be provided by an organization not
   certified by the Department.

   830.7. Only budget items approved by the Department as special exceptions
   shall be excluded from the agency’s expendable budget.

   830.8. The Department shall inform each agency of the agency’s projected
   expendable budget and its projected goal under section 2341 of the Act and
   provide to Council information on each agency’s total budget, exclusion from
   the agency’s total budget by comptroller object code, each agency’s
   expendable budget, and the projected goal for each agency under section 2341
   of the Act.
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 9052 (December 4, 1992); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 8439 (October 23, 2009),
   incorporating by reference text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 56 DCR
   5622, 5643 (July 10, 2009).
