                                  DC REGULATIONS

MICROLOAN FUND (§ 27-851)

851.1. The Department shall implement and administer the Microloan Fund
   (“Microloan Fund”) established pursuant to section 2375(b) of the Act. 
   The Microloan Fund is a financing tool designed to sustain and/or increase the
   level of business activity, job creation and retention, and provide access to
   capital for the sustainability and expansion of designated categories of CBEs.

   851.2. Funding issued from the Microloan Fund may be structured as a grant,
   senior or subordinated secured loan, loan guarantee, collateral, surety, or
   any other financial assistance. The Department may, in its discretion,
   outsource the loan underwriting process to a qualified non-profit organization
   or financial institution.

   851.3. To be eligible for funding from the Microloan Fund a recipient must:
   
   
   
   		(a) 	Be certified pursuant to the Act as an SBE and a DBE;
   
   		(b) 	Be independently owned, operated, and controlled;
   
   	(c)	 Be in good standing with the Department of Consumer and Regulatory
   			Affairs; and
   
   		(d)	 Have a Certificate of Clean Hands from the Office of Tax and Revenue.

   851.4. The following are ineligible to receive funding from the Microloan
   Fund:
   
   		(a) 	Businesses that have operated for less than two (2) years;
   
   		(b) 	Street vendors; and
   
   		(c)	 Regional or national franchise businesses.

   851.5. The Department shall give preference for financial assistance to (i)
   eligible recipients that are certified pursuant to the Act as a Resident Owned
   Business, and (ii) eligible recipients that serve or whose principal office is
   located in a DC Main Streets corridor, a Neighborhood Investment Program
   Target Area, or another area identified by the Mayor for economic development
   or commercial revitalization.  The Department shall maintain and make
   available a list of such eligible target areas.  The preference may be in the
   form of higher funding amounts, different rates or terms for funding, or such
   other form as the Department may determine in its discretion best serves the
   goals and purposes of the Microloan Fund.

   851.6. An eligible recipient may use proceeds from the Microloan Fund for the
   following purposes:
   
   (a)	Working capital;
   
   (b) 	Inventory;
   
   (c)	Acquisition or repair of furniture, fixtures, machinery, or equipment;
   
   (d)	Ecologically-efficient improvements;
   
   (e) 	Contract cash flow assistance;
   
   (f)	Purchase or implementation of financial management systems (e.g., point of
   sale, upgrades to meet prime contractor standards);
   
   (g) 	Leasehold improvements; or
   
   (h) 	Property renovation.

   851.7. The Department shall develop underwriting criteria and rates and terms
   for funding from the Microloan Fund.  Such criteria shall include, at minimum,
   the maximum funding amount(s), interest rate(s) and any applicable deferral
   periods, term limits, security or collateral requirements and fees and costs. 
   The Department shall include the underwriting criteria with the application
   and/or publish the underwriting criteria on its website.  The Department may
   modify the underwriting criteria as necessary to account for changes in
   budgeted amounts of the Microloan Fund or changing needs of the local business
   community.  The Department may work with a qualified non-profit organization
   and/or financial institution to develop and/or modify as necessary the
   underwriting criteria.

   851.8. An eligible recipient seeking funding from the Microloan Fund shall
   submit a written application to the Department on such form or forms as may be
   prescribed by the Department.  The application shall include, at a minimum,
   submission of the following documents and information:
   
   
   
   (a)	 Current CBE Certification and evidence that the applicant is certified as
   an SBE and a DBE;
   
   (b)	 Clean Hands Certification from the Office of Tax and Revenue;
   
   (c) 	Certificate of Good Standing from the Department of Consumer and
   Regulatory Affairs;
   
   (d)	 Financial status of the applicant including, but not limited to, current
   and past tax returns, balance sheet(s) and profit and loss statements;
   
   (e) 	Amount of funding from the Microloan Fund requested by the applicant;
   
   (f) 	Reason for requesting funding from the Microloan Fund; and
   
   (g) 	Any other information or documents the Department may require in order to
   assess the applicant’s eligibility and/or credit worthiness.

   851.9. The Department, and/or any qualified non-profit organization or
   financial institution to which the Department has outsourced the underwriting
   process, shall review and evaluate an application for funding from the
   Microloan Fund for completeness, underwriting analysis and funding
   determination.  Incomplete applications shall be returned to the applicant.

   851.10. Within sixty (60) days of receipt of a complete application, the
   Department or its non-profit or financial institution partner shall notify the
   applicant whether the funding request has been approved, denied, or if
   additional information is needed to make a determination.  If an application
   is denied, the Department or its non-profit/financial institution partner
   shall provide the applicant an explanation of the underwriting determination.

   851.11. The Department may, in its discretion, require the potential borrower
   or borrower to participate in targeted training, technical assistance, and/or
   periodic monitoring to help strengthen business operations as a condition of
   funding from the Microloan Fund or as a pre-condition for future funding.

   851.12. The Department of Insurance, Securities and Banking (DISB) shall
   administer that portion of the Microloan Fund specifically designated for the
   Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program.  DISB may, in its discretion,
   outsource the loan underwriting process to a qualified non-profit organization
   or financial institution.

   851.13. The Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program shall provide a cash
   collateral account to an eligible lender in order to enhance the collateral
   coverage of an eligible recipient, as defined in the Act, that is otherwise
   qualified but unable to meet the lender’s security requirements.  The cash
   collateral account will then be pledged as collateral on behalf of the
   eligible recipient.
   
   
   
   851.14 	An eligible lender for the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program
   may include:
   
   (a)	A federally insured commercial lender;
   
   (b) 	A federally insured credit union; or
   
   (c) 	A Community Development Financial Institution.
   
   
   
   851.15 	To enroll in the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program the
   eligible lender must provide to DISB:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A signed State Small Business Credit Initiative Collateral Support
   Agreement with DISB;
   
   (b) 	A certification that it is in compliance with the requirements of 31
   C.F.R. § 103.121;
   
   (c) 	A certification that, consistent with OMB Circular A-129, it has at least
   twenty percent (20%) of its own capital at risk in any loan enrolled in the
   Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program, unless a waiver is granted;
   
   (d)	A certification that no principal of the lender has been convicted of a
   sex offense against a minor as such term is defined in section 111 of the Sex
   Offender Registration and Notification Act (42 U.S.C. § 16911); and
   
   (e) 	Any other document necessary for the administration of the Collateral
   Support Loan Guarantee Program or for compliance with the U.S. Treasury’s
   State Small Business Credit Initiative.
   
   851.16 	Eligible recipients under the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee
   Program include businesses that meet the requirements as defined by the Act.
   
   851.17 	An eligible recipient under the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee
   Program, including its affiliates and subsidiaries, must have seven hundred
   fifty (750) or fewer employees at the time the loan is enrolled in the
   Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program. An eligible recipient must use the
   loans issued through the use of the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program
   for a business purpose.  Eligible recipients may not be:
   
   (a)	Executive officers, directors, or principal shareholders of the financial
   institution or qualified non-profit organization enrolling the loan; a member
   of the immediate family of an executive officer, director, or principal
   shareholder of the financial institution or qualified non-profit organization
   enrolling the loan; or a related interest of such an executive officer,
   director, principal shareholder, or member of the immediate family. For the
   purpose of these eligible recipient restrictions, the terms “executive
   officer,” “director,” “principal shareholder,” “immediate
   family,” and “related interest” refer to the same relationship to a
   financial institution lender or qualified non-profit organization as the
   relationship described in 12 C.F.R. part 215, or any successor to such part;
   
   (b)	A business engaged in speculative activities that develops profits from
   fluctuations in price rather than through normal course of trade, such as
   wildcatting for oil or dealing in commodities futures, unless those activities
   are incidental to the regular activities of the business and part of a
   legitimate risk management strategy to guard against price fluctuations
   related to the regular activities of the business;
   
   (c)	A business that earns more than half of its annual net revenue from
   lending activities, unless the business is a non-bank or non-bank holding
   company or Community Development Financial Institution;
   
   (d)	A business engaged in pyramid sales, where a participant&#8217;s primary
   incentive is based on the sales made by an ever-increasing number of
   participants; or
   
   (e)	A business engaged in activities that are prohibited by federal or
   District of Columbia law.
   
   851.18 	Eligible recipients under the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee
   Program must certify that no principal of the borrowing entity has been
   convicted of a sex offense against a minor as such term is defined in section
   111 of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (42 U.S.C. §
   16911). For the purposes of this certification, “principal” is defined as
   “if a sole proprietorship, the proprietor; if a partnership, each managing
   partner and each partner who holds twenty percent (20%) or more ownership
   interest in the partnership; if a corporation, limited liability company,
   association or a development company, each director, each of the five (5) most
   highly compensated executives, officers, or employees of the entity, and each
   direct or indirect holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the ownership
   stock or stock equivalent of the entity.”
   
   851.19  	The loan proceeds from the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program
   must be used for a business purpose, including purposes outlined in § 851.6,
   business acquisitions and expansions, commercial real estate, and
   construction.  The entire proceeds of the loan must be used within the
   District of Columbia.
   
   851.20       	The loan proceeds from the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee
   Program cannot be used:
   
   (a)	To repay delinquent federal or District of Columbia income taxes unless
   the eligible recipient has a payment plan in place with the relevant taxing
   authority;
   
   (b)	To repay taxes held in trust or escrow, for example, payroll or sales
   taxes;
   
   (c)	To reimburse funds owed to any owner, including any equity injection or
   injection of capital for the business’s continuance;
   
   (d) 	To purchase any portion of the ownership interest of any owner of the
   business;
   
   (e) 	To acquire or hold passive investments;
   
   (f) 	For refinancing of existing debt, other than a refinancing permitted by
   § 851.22;
   
   (g) 	For legal or illegal gambling; or
   
   (h) 	For evangelizing, proselytizing, or lobbying.
   
   851.21  	For the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program, the maximum
   aggregate outstanding loan amount(s) that may be enrolled for any single
   eligible recipient or any common enterprise in which the eligible recipient
   has an ownership interest is five million dollars ($5,000,000).  Personal
   guarantees are required from any individual holding twenty percent (20%) or
   more ownership interest in the eligible recipient.
   
   851.22  	A loan refinanced from a different lender may be enrolled in the
   Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program. Loans with the same lender or its
   affiliate may be refinanced and enrolled in the Collateral Support Loan
   Guarantee Program, but only to the extent additional principal is added above
   the refinanced amount. The additional principal amount, and only that amount,
   is eligible for enrollment in the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program.
   Fluctuations in the outstanding balance of a line of credit, without
   increasing the covered amount under the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee
   Program, will not be deemed to be a refinancing of the loan.  If the
   outstanding balance of a loan, which is not a line of credit, is reduced to
   zero (0), that loan will no longer be considered an enrolled loan in the
   Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program. If a loan that is a line of credit
   has an outstanding balance of zero (0) for twelve (12) consecutive months, it
   will no longer be considered an enrolled loan in the Collateral Support Loan
   Guarantee Program, unless, before the expiration of the twelve (12) month
   period, the eligible lender has reaffirmed in writing to the eligible
   recipient that the line of credit will remain open and the eligible recipient
   has acknowledged that reaffirmation in writing to the eligible lender and the
   DISB.
   
   
   
   851.23         	The maximum amount that DISB may pay into a cash collateral
   account, pursuant to the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program, is fifty
   percent (50%) of the loan amount.  The amount paid into the cash collateral
   account may come from the Microloan Fund or from a financial institution
   pursuant to a Co-Guarantee Collateral Support Agreement between DISB and the
   eligible lender.  The collateral support provided to the aggregate of all
   loans enrolled in the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program shall be as
   follows:
   
   (a)	No more than ten percent (10%) of the dollar amount of all enrolled loans
   shall receive a fifty percent (50%) guarantee, unless DISB modifies this
   standard upon reasonable belief that the District of Columbia will meet a ten
   (10) to one (1) leverage requirement for all funds disbursed through the
   Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program.
   
   (b)	No more than seventy-five percent (75%) of the dollar amount of all
   enrolled loans shall receive a thirty percent (30%) guarantee, unless DISB
   modifies this standard upon reasonable belief that the District of Columbia
   will meet a ten (10) to one (1) leverage requirement for all funds disbursed
   through the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program; and
   
   (c) 	No more than fifteen percent (15%) of the dollar amount of all enrolled
   loans shall receive a twenty percent (20%) guarantee, unless DISB modifies
   this standard upon reasonable belief that the District of Columbia will meet a
   ten (10) to one (1) leverage requirement for all funds disbursed through the
   Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program.
   
   851.24  	All Microloan Funds transferred to a cash collateral account will be
   the property of, and solely controlled by, DISB.  Interest or income earned on
   the funds will be credited to the cash collateral account.  DISB is authorized
   to withdraw at any time from a cash collateral account all interest or income
   that has been credited to the cash collateral account. Interest or income
   withdrawals may be used for any purpose in connection with the Collateral
   Support Loan Guarantee Program. The cash collateral account will be reduced
   proportionately with the principal reduction of the loan, on an annual basis
   or sooner if the loan is paid off.
   
   851.25  	Each cash collateral account for participating eligible lenders will
   be established in the name of DISB and maintained at that eligible lender or
   at another designated insured depository financial institution in a segregated
   account to be identified as “DISB Microloan Fund &#8211; Collateral Support
   Loan Guarantee Program” or other name that DISB determines.

   851.26. The cash collateral accounts are to be interest bearing, and
   participating eligible lenders may not charge DISB for any fees related to the
   Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program transactions or for the maintenance
   of a cash collateral account or any other related fees.
   
   851.27  	After an eligible lender charges off all or part of a loan enrolled
   in the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program and after making other
   efforts to collect upon the enrolled loan, including but not limited to
   seeking judgment and levying against collateral, the lender may file a claim
   with DISB by submitting a completed claim form, including any required
   information that DISB determines, bearing the execution signature of an
   authorized officer of the eligible lender. The eligible lender’s claim may
   include the amount of the enrolled principal left unpaid by eligible
   lender’s collection efforts plus up to ninety (90) days of accrued interest,
   and fifty percent (50%) of the reasonable, documented out-of-pocket expenses
   incurred by the eligible lender, but not paid by the eligible recipient, in
   pursuing collection efforts, including the preservation of collateral, the
   total not to exceed the amount of funds in the cash collateral account for
   that particular loan.
   
   851.28        	Upon receipt and acceptance by DISB of a claim filed by the
   eligible lender, DISB will promptly pay the claim as submitted solely from
   funds in the cash collateral account for that particular loan. If after DISB
   pays the claim, the eligible lender recovers from an eligible recipient any
   amount for which payment of the claim was made, the eligible lender shall
   promptly pay to the Microloan Fund the amount recovered, less its reasonable,
   documented out-of-pocket expenses.  The eligible lender shall retain
   documentation in its files of those out-of-pocket expenses.  The eligible
   lender will only be required to pay to DISB amounts in excess of the amount
   needed to fully cover the eligible lender’s loss on a loan under the
   Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program.
   
   851.29  	Each eligible lender will make quarterly and annual reports to DISB.
   Quarterly reports shall be due on or before the thirtieth (30th) day of the
   month following the end of the quarter for which the eligible lender is
   submitting its report. On or before January 31st of each year, the eligible
   lender shall file a report with DISB indicating the number of eligible
   recipients, the total dollar amount of new loans (broken down by industry
   type, loan size, annual revenues, and number of full-time equivalent
   employees, including those who are District residents by Ward, and separately,
   the number of jobs created or retained as a result of the loan, for each
   eligible recipient) and the aggregate outstanding balance of all enrolled
   loans as of the previous December 31st. In computing the aggregate outstanding
   balance of all enrolled loans, the balance of any loan shall not be greater
   than the covered amount of the loan as enrolled and, in the case of lines of
   credit, the outstanding balance shall be the enrolled credit line amount.
   
   851.30  	The eligible lender shall submit to DISB a monthly account statement
   which reflects all activity for the period under the cash collateral account
   within ten (10) days of the previous calendar month end.
   
   851.31  	From time to time, but no less frequently than annually, DISB shall
   submit a report to the eligible lender indicating the aggregate amount of
   funds available under the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program. If at any
   time such report indicates that the aggregate amount of available funds is
   less than one million dollars ($1,000,000), then during the period of time
   until the next report, the eligible lender may contact DISB for confirmation
   of the aggregate amount of the available funds under the Collateral Support
   Loan Guarantee Program.
   
   851.32  	DISB may, in its sole discretion, terminate its obligation to enroll
   loans under the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program. The termination
   shall be applicable on the effective date specified in the notice of
   termination, except that the termination shall not apply to any loan which is
   made on or before the date on which the notice of termination is received by
   the eligible lender.  If a participating eligible lender discontinues using
   the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program and no additional loans are
   being made under the Collateral Support Loan Guarantee Program, DISB will make
   withdrawals against each cash collateral account proportionately to the
   outstanding balance of the loan until each loan has been repaid. At that time,
   DISB will withdraw all remaining funds in the account.
   
   
   
   851.33  	DISB may charge a Closing Fee of up to four percent (4%) of the
   balance of the cash collateral account at closing and an annual fee of up to
   four percent (4%) of the annual balance of the cash collateral account.

   851.34. DISB shall administer that portion of the Microloan Fund specifically
   designated for the Surety Bonding Guarantee Program.
   
   851.35  	Under the Surety Bonding Guarantee Program, DISB may guarantee a
   surety up to the lesser of ninety percent (90%) or one million dollars
   ($1,000,000) of the surety’s loss under a bid bond, payment bond, or
   performance bond on a contract financed by the federal government, a state
   government, a local government, or a private entity. DISB shall deposit the
   amount of the guarantee into a cash collateral account for each approved
   surety guarantee.  The amount paid into the cash collateral account may come
   from the Microloan Fund or from a financial institution pursuant to a
   Co-Guarantee Collateral Support Agreement between DISB and the financial
   institution.

   851.36. An eligible surety under the Surety Bonding Guarantee Program shall:
   
   (a)	Be acceptable as surety or reinsurer on Federal bonds under title 31 of
   the United States Code or shall be approved by the Commissioner of the DISB;
   
   (b)	Sign a State Small Business Credit Initiative Surety Bonding Guarantee
   Agreement with DISB; and
   
   (c) 	Sign any other document necessary for the administration of the Surety
   Bonding Guarantee Program or for compliance with the U.S. Treasury’s State
   Small Business Credit Initiative.
   
   851.37 	The term of a guarantee under the Surety Bonding Guarantee Program may
   not exceed the contract term, including:
   
   (a)	The maintenance or warranty period required by the contract; and
   
   (b)	The period during which the surety may be liable for latent defects.

   851.38. DISB may vary the terms and conditions of a guarantee based on:
   
   (a) 	DISB&#8217;s history of experience with a surety; and
   
   (b) 	Any other factor DISB considers relevant.
   
   851.39  	DISB may execute and perform a bid bond, performance bond, or payment
   bond as a surety for the benefit of a principal who is an eligible recipient
   under the Act in connection with a contract financed by the federal government
   or a state government, a local government, or a private entity. The bonds may
   not exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000) each. Bonds are subject to the
   approval of DISB based on the bond worthiness of the principal. DISB shall
   deposit the amount of the bond into a cash collateral account for each
   approved surety.
   
   851.40  	DISB may only approve a guarantee or a bond under this part if DISB
   determines that the contract for which a bond is sought to be guaranteed or
   issued will have a substantial economic impact on the District.  To determine
   the economic impact of a contract on the District, DISB may consider:
   
   (a)	The amount of the guarantee obligation;
   
   (b)	The terms of the bond to be guaranteed;
   
   (c)	The number of new jobs in the District that the contract to be bonded will
   create; and
   
   (d) 	Any other factor that DISB considers relevant.
   
   851.41  	To qualify for financial assistance under the Surety Bonding
   Guarantee Program the principal shall satisfy DISB that:
   
   (a) 	The principal is of good moral character or is owned by individuals of
   good moral character;
   
   (b) 	As determined from creditors, employers, and other individuals who have
   personal knowledge, the principal is an individual with a reputation for
   financial responsibility or is owned by individuals, a majority of whom have a
   reputation for financial responsibility;
   
   (c) 	The principal qualifies as an eligible recipient under the Act;
   
   (d) 	The principal is unable to obtain adequate bonding on reasonable terms
   through normal channels; and
   
   (e)  	Certify that no principal of the eligible recipient entity has been
   convicted of a sex offense against a minor as such term is defined in section
   111 of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (42 U.S.C. §
   16911). For the purposes of this certification, “principal” is defined as
   “if a sole proprietorship, the proprietor; if a partnership, each managing
   partner and each partner who holds twenty percent (20%) or more ownership
   interest in the partnership; if a corporation, limited liability company,
   association or a development company, each director, each of the five (5) most
   highly compensated executives, officers, or employees of the entity, and each
   direct or indirect holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the ownership
   stock or stock equivalent of the entity.
   
   851.42  	To qualify for financial assistance under the Surety Bonding
   Guarantee Program the principal shall certify to DISB, and DISB shall be
   satisfied, that:
   
   (a) 	A bond is required to bid on a contract or to serve as prime contractor
   or subcontractor;
   
   (b) 	A bond cannot be obtained on reasonable terms and conditions without
   assistance from the Surety Bonding Guarantee Program; and
   
   (c) 	The principal will not subcontract more than seventy-five percent (75%)
   of the monetary value of the contract.
   
   851.43  	To apply for financial assistance from the Surety Bonding Guarantee
   Program, a principal and, if applicable, a surety shall submit to DISB an
   application on the form that the DISB provides. The application shall include:
   
   (a) 	A detailed description of the project;
   
   (b)	An itemization of known and estimated costs;
   
   (c) 	The total investment required to perform the contract;
   
   (d) 	The working capital available to the principal;
   
   (e) 	The bonding assistance sought;
   
   (f) 	Information that demonstrates the inability of the principal to obtain
   adequate bonding on reasonable terms and conditions through normal channels
   without assistance from the Surety Bonding Guarantee Program;
   
   (g) 	A current balance sheet, a profit and loss statement, and credit
   references about the financial status of the principal;
   
   (h) 	A schedule of the status of existing and pending contracts; and
   
   (i) 	Any other relevant information DISB requests.
   
   851.44 	DISB may require an eligible recipient to provide an audited balance
   sheet before the DISB approves or denies the application under the Surety
   Bonding Guarantee Program.
   
   851.45  	DISB shall not approve a guarantee or bond under the Surety Bonding
   Guarantee Program for a principal that has defaulted on a loan or guarantee
   from DISB or the District of Columbia government including agencies,
   instrumentalities, and government corporations unless:
   
   (a) 	Two (2) years have passed since the time of the default; and
   
   (b) 	The principal has cured the default.
   
   851.46  	DISB may set the premiums and fees for providing bonding assistance
   under the Surety Bonding Guarantee Program and the terms and conditions when
   the premiums and fees are payable. The premiums and fees may vary in amount
   among transactions and at different stages of a transaction.

   851.47. DISB shall ensure that the Surety Bonding Guarantee Program meets the
   ten (10) to one (1) leverage requirement from the U.S. Treasury’s State
   Small Business Credit Initiative.

   851.48. DISB may, as a condition of providing a guarantee under the Surety
   Bonding Guarantee Program, require a principal to:
   
   (a)       Participate in targeted training, technical assistance, or periodic
   monitoring to help strengthen business operations and develop the
   principal’s capacity to receive a bond on future contracts without a
   guarantee from the Surety Bonding Guarantee Program;
   
   (b)	Sign an agreement that requires contract payments from the federal
   government, state government, local government, or private entity be managed
   by DISB or a qualified organization or individual selected by DISB; and
   
   (c)	Sign an agreement that delegates the management of the contract to DISB or
   a qualified organization or individual selected by DISB.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 8439 (October 23, 2009),
   incorporating by reference text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 56 DCR
   5622, 5654 (July 10, 2009); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR
   8536 (July 20, 2012).
