                                  DC REGULATIONS

EQUITY AND DEVELOPMENT PARTICIPATION PROGRAM (§ 27-838)

838.1. Local, Small, and Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (“LSDBEs”)
   shall receive a minimum of 20% Equity Participation and a minimum of 20%
   Development Participation in any Covered Project.

   838.2. For the LSDBE to be a Development Participant, an entity, including a
   special purpose entity, must be certified by the Department under the Act as
   an LSDBE.

   838.3. For the LSDBE to be an Equity Participant, an entity, including a
   special purpose entity, must be certified by the Department under the Act as
   an LSDBE.

   838.4. As appropriate, the Director may provide guidance to District agencies,
   business enterprises, and interested members of the public regarding the
   equity and development participation requirements.

   838.5. An Agency considering a solicitation for a Covered Project may contact
   the Department as needed to coordinate outreach efforts to Equity Participants
   and Development Participants and provide the Department with the specific
   details regarding the Covered Project.

   838.6. With respect to solicitations, including but not limited to Requests
   for Proposals (“RFPs”), Invitations for Bids (“IFBs”), Requests for
   Qualifications (“RFQs”), and Calls for Expressions of Interest, issued by
   District agencies in connection with Covered Projects.  The solicitation shall
   include the following:
   
   (a)	The Equity Participation and Development Participation requirements and an
   agreement that the party responding to the solicitation agrees to satisfy the
   Equity Participation and Development Participation requirements;
   
   (b)	A statement that the District is interested in Component Development by
   Development Participant(s) where feasible and consistent with the District’s
   goals with respect to the project for which the solicitation is issued; and
   
   (c)	A statement that the Equity Participation and Development Participation
   requirements are only minimum levels, and the District is interested in
   Covered Projects that exceed these minimum requirements.

   838.7. The Director, or the Director’s designee, may review responses to
   solicitations for all Covered Projects to ensure that the responses are
   consistent with the equity and development participation requirements.

   838.8. At least three (3) business days prior to the issuance of any request
   for proposals, request for qualifications, calls for expressions of interest
   or other similar documents relating to any Covered Project, the District
   agency involved shall notify the Director of its intent to issue such a
   document and prior to issuance provide the Director with an electronic copy of
   the document.  The Department may advertise such EDP Program opportunities on
   its website after the solicitation is issued.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 9052 (December 4, 1992); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 8439 (October 23, 2009),
   incorporating by reference text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 56 DCR
   5622, 5684 (July 10, 2009).
