                                  DC REGULATIONS

PEDICABS (ยง 18-1213)

1213.1. Pedicabs shall be operated in accordance with the safe operation of
   bicycle regulations set forth in ยง 1201.

   1213.2. Notwithstanding ยง 1213.1, pedicabs shall be operated only on public
   streets.

   1213.3. Each pedicab shall meet the following safety requirements:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The maximum width of the pedicab shall be fifty-five inches (55 in.);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The maximum length of the pedicab shall be ten feet (10 ft.);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The pedicab shall be equipped with:
   
   
   
   (1)	Passenger seat belts (either one (1) seat belt for each passenger or one
   (1) seat belt that covers all passengers);
   
   
   
   (2)	Hydraulic or mechanical disc or drum brakes, which shall be unaffected by
   rain or wet conditions;
   
   
   
   (3)	At least one (1) and no more than two (2) battery-operated head lamps
   capable of projecting a beam of white light for a distance of three hundred
   feet (300 ft.) in front of the pedicab, under normal atmospheric conditions at
   the times that use of the head lamp is required;
   
   
   
   (4)	Battery-operated tail lamps mounted on the rear of the pedicab, which,
   when operated, shall emit a red beam of light visible from a distance of five
   hundred feet (500 ft.) to the rear, under normal atmospheric conditions at the
   times that use of the head lamp is required;
   
   
   
   (5)	Turn lights;
   
   
   
   (6)	A bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance
   of at least one hundred feet (100 ft.); and
   
   
   
   (7)	Reflectors on the spokes of the wheels of the pedicab.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Reflective tape that meets the following requirements shall be affixed on the
   side and back of the pedicab:
   
   
   
   (1)	The tape shall be at least two inches (2 in.) wide;
   
   
   
   (2)	The tape shall be at least twelve inches (12 in.) long; and
   
   
   
   (3)	There shall be at least two (2) pieces of tape on each side and on the
   back of the pedicab.

   1213.4. Each pedicab shall be operated in accordance with the following
   provisions:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The maximum number of passengers a pedicab may transport shall not exceed the
   number of available seats;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All passengers shall be seated while the pedicab is in motion;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All passengers shall have a seatbelt securely fastened while the pedicab is in
   motion.  This requirement shall be clearly displayed to pedicab passengers;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A pedicab shall not be operated on a roadway with a posted speed limit of more
   than thirty miles per hour (30 mph);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A pedicab may not be operated or parked on a sidewalk;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Pedicab passengers shall be loaded and off-loaded while the pedicab is
   stopped;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   No pedicab operator shall stop to load or unload passengers on the traffic
   side of the street, while occupying any intersection or crosswalk, or in such
   a manner as to unduly interfere with the orderly flow of traffic.  All pedicab
   operators shall pull as close to the curb or edge of the roadway as possible
   to take on or discharge passengers;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A pedicab shall not be parked in any restricted zones identified for other
   vehicles, including, but not limited to, parking meter zones, residential
   permit parking zones, valet parking zones, bus zones, taxicab zones;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A pedicab shall not be tied, cabled, or otherwise attached to a parking meter,
   street light pole, or other public space asset;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   At any time from one half (1/2) hour after sunset to one-half (1/2) hour
   before sunrise, and at any other time when, due to insufficient light or
   unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the highway are
   not clearly discernible at a distance of five hundred feet (500 ft.) ahead, a
   pedicab shall be operated with a headlamp of sufficient intensity to reveal a
   person or a vehicle three hundred feet (300 ft.); and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   At any time from one half (1/2) hour after sunset to one-half (1/2) hour
   before sunrise, and at any other time when, due to insufficient light or
   unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the highway are
   not clearly discernible at a distance of five hundred feet (500 ft.) ahead, a
   pedicab shall be operated with tail lamps capable of being seen from a
   distance of five hundred feet (500 ft.).

   1213.5. No one shall operate or be in control of a pedicab while the
   person&#8217;s alcohol concentration is eight hundredths of a gram (0.08 g.)
   or more either per one hundred milliliters (100 ml.) of blood or per two
   hundred and ten liters (210 L.) of breath or is one tenth of a gram (0.10 g.)
   or more per one hundred milliliters (100 ml.) of urine, or while under the
   influence of intoxicating liquor or any drug or any combination thereof, or
   while the ability to operate a vehicle is impaired by the consumption of
   intoxicating liquor.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 6424 (July 29, 2011);
   as amended by Notice of Emergency and Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR
   6685 (August 5, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 58 DCR 11113 (December 23, 2011).
