                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR SURFACE SPACE RENTAL (§ 24-202)

202.1. Application for the use of surface space shall be made to the D.C.
   Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs in duplicate, on the form
   prescribed for that purpose.

   202.2. Each application form shall be accompanied by six (6) copies of a plat
   or drawing indicating, to scale, the amount of surface space the applicant is
   seeking permission to use.

   202.3. Each application shall state with the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nature of the proposed use;
   
   
   
   (b)	The type of equipment to be used; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The days of the week and hours of each day the applicant desires to use
   the surface space.

   202.4. Each application for a permit for the occupancy and use of public space
   shall be signed by the owner of the abutting property.

   202.5. Each application shall contain a statement by the applicant that he or
   she will, in consideration of being issued a permit for the use of surface
   space, agree to hold harmless the United States and the District, and the
   officers and employees of each of these governments, for any loss or damage
   arising out of the use of the space, or the discontinuance of any use.

   202.6. Each applicant shall sign a statement that he or she understands and
   agrees to the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the applicant&#8217;s use of surface space is to be temporary, on a
   day-to-day basis;
   
   
   
   (b)	That the applicant shall not acquire any right, title, or interest in the
   space;
   
   
   
   (c)	That the Director may, by written notice, require the permittee at any
   time to vacate all or part of the surface space he or she has been given
   permission to use;
   
   
   
   (d)	That, upon demand to vacate the space, the applicant will promptly remove
   any personal property he or she placed on the space, or reimburse the District
   for the cost of moving the property; and
   
   
   
   (e)	That the applicant shall have no recourse against either the United
   States, the District, or the officer or agents of either, for any loss or
   damage that occurs because of the applicant being required to vacate all or
   any part of the surface space that he or she had been granted permission to
   use.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 43, §§2(b), 3(e) of the Police Regulations (May 1981).
