                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL CONDITIONS OF USE OF SURFACE SPACE (§ 24-207)

207.1. Each permit to use surface space under the authority of this chapter
   shall be subject to the conditions set forth in this section.

   207.2. Public space shall be rented only to the owner of the abutting private
   property. The owner may sublet that space to his tenant upon filing a copy of
   the rental agreement for said public space with the Director as set forth in
   § 201.

   207.3. The space shall only be used for the activity or activities specified
   on the permit, in-accordance with the requirements of these and any other
   applicable regulations.

   207.4. The use of any space is temporary, and the user acquires no right,
   title, or interest in the space he or she is permitted to use.

   207.5. The United States and the District, and the officers and employees of
   these governments, shall be held harmless for any loss or damage arising out
   of any use of public space, or the discontinuance of any use, whether the loss
   or damage is suffered by the permittee, the United States, the District, or by
   some third person.

   207.6. The Director may require any space to be vacated upon demand, and its
   use discontinued. In either case, the permittee has no recourse against either
   the United States or the District for any loss or damage occasioned by any
   requirement to vacate or discontinue use of any public space.

   207.7. If a permittee does not vacate or discontinue the use of the public
   space by the time specified by the Director, the Director may remove from the
   space any property left on it. Removal shall be at the risk and expense of the
   owner.

   207.8. Any awning, umbrella, or other covering extending over or used on a
   surface space shall be flame-proofed; and the arrangement of any furniture or
   other property placed on a surface space shall be in accordance with a plan
   proposed by the applicant, recommended by the Director, and approved by the
   Committee.

   207.9. The permittee shall remove promptly any litter deposited on or in the
   vicinity of the surface space used by him or her, that results from the
   activity or activities conducted by the permittee on the space or on any area
   adjoining the space.

   207.10. The permittee shall, at all times, conduct all activities in an
   orderly fashion.

   207.11. The permittee shall, under permit duly issued by the District, provide
   lighting facilities adequate to light the activity or activities conducted by
   the permittee on the surface space during the evening or night.

   207.12. The space shall be used for business purposes only during the hours
   specified on the permit authorizing use, and neither before nor after such
   hours.

   207.13. The permittee shall post the permit issued to him or her for the use
   of surface space in a conspicuous location on the front of the premises
   occupied by the permittee, either on the exterior of the premises, or in a
   location where it may be seen from the exterior of the premises. The permit
   shall be located and lighted so as to be readily legible to a person on the
   public space in front of the premises.

   207.14. No food may be consumed on public space unless table service is
   provided by a waiter or waitress, or unless an attendant is assigned to the
   area for maintenance purposes during all times the area is occupied by
   patrons.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 43, §§ 3(j)(1)-(11), (14-15) of the Police Regulations (May
   1981); as amended by § 6(b) of Enclosed Sidewalk Cafe Act of 1982, D.C. Law
   4-148, 29 DCR 3361, 3367 (August 6, 1982).
