                                  DC REGULATIONS

LICENSES NEAR SCHOOLS, COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, AND RECREATION AREAS (ยง 23-302)

302.1. The four hundred foot (400 ft.) distance shall be measured in
   accordance with the provisions of ยง 101.2 of this title.

   302.2. A license may be transferred, in the discretion of the Board, from one
   (1) place within the prohibited distance to another place within the same
   prohibited distance by the same establishment.

   302.3. A license may be issued, in the discretion of the Board, for a place of
   business located within four hundred feet (400 ft.) of a college or university
   if the Board is satisfied that the college or university does not object to
   the granting of the license, as evidenced by a written statement to the Board
   from the proper governing body of the college or university. If the college or
   university is itself the holder of a license, it shall be deemed not to object
   to the issuance of a license for another place of business.

   302.4. A license may be issued for any place within the prohibited distance of
   a recreation area operated by the D.C. Department of Parks and Recreation if
   one of the following is satisfied:
   
   
   
   (a)	At the time the recreation area was established at that location, there
   was a place of business holding a license of the same class as that applied
   for within four hundred feet (400 ft.) of the recreation area; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The Board is furnished a written statement by the Department of Parks and
   Recreation of the District of Columbia to the effect that it does not object
   to the granting of the license.

   302.5. No alcoholic beverage shall be sold or served by a licensee upon any
   portion of any premises which fronts upon, abuts, adjoins, or is opposite to
   the premises of any of the institutions or recreation areas mentioned in this
   section unless that portion of the premises where alcoholic beverages are
   served is within a building; provided, that the restriction of service within
   a building is not applicable to Class C or D licensees on non-school days,
   weekends, and after 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, allowing alcohol products to be
   served on licensed outdoor patios which are part of the licensee&#8217;s
   premises.

   302.6. The provisions of ยง 302.5 shall not apply to premises designated in a
   Temporary license Class F or G or catered by the holder of a Caterer&#8217;s
   license.

   302.7. The provisions of this section shall not apply where the main entrance
   to the college, university, or recreation area, or the nearest property line
   of the school, is actually on or occupies ground zoned commercial or
   industrial according to the official atlases of the Zoning Commission of the
   District of Columbia.

   302.8. The Board may issue a Retailer&#8217;s license Class CR or DR for a
   restaurant within four hundred feet (400 ft.) of a public, private, or
   parochial private, elementary, middle school, junior high school, high school,
   or charter school if the following conditions are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The restaurant is located entirely inside of a hotel, apartment house,
   club, or office building and no sign or display is visible from the outside of
   the building unless the Board specifically approves the outside sign or
   display;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Board of Education of the District of Columbia in the case of a public
   school, or the proper governing body of a private or parochial school, has
   been notified by the Board of the license application pursuant to D.C.
   Official Code ยง 25-421 and has submitted a written statement to the Board
   that it has no objection to the issuance of the license; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The Board of Education or governing body files no written objection to the
   license application during the protest period.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4309 (April 30, 2004); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12991 (December 26, 2008).
