                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONFLICT OF INTEREST (§ 7-1604)

1604.1. No Board member or Board employee shall participate in or attempt to
   influence any procurement when the Board member or employee knows or has
   reason to know:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Board member or employee, or any relative of a Board member or
   employee, has a financial interest pertaining to the procurement;
   
   
   
   (b)	A business or organization in which the Board member or employee, or any
   relative of Board member or employee has a financial interest pertaining to
   the procurement; or
   
   
   
   (c) 	The Board member or employee or any relative of a Board member or
   employee has an agreement or arrangement for prospective employment with a
   business or organization involved with the procurement.

   1604.2. It is a breach of ethical standards for any employee to receive or
   attempt to realize personal gain or advantage, either directly or indirectly,
   as a result of their participation in any action related to any procurement. 
   No Board member or employee may solicit or accept, directly or indirectly any
   benefit, such as a gift, gratuity, favor, compensation, offer of employment or
   anything having more than a nominal monetary value from any person or entity
   having or seeking to have a contractual, business, or financial relationship
   with the Board.

   1604.3. In the event a Board employee, other than the Executive Director, is
   offered or receives any benefit in violation of any provision of §§
   1602-1604 from any person or entity, the employee shall report the matter to
   the Executive Director or designee who shall determine the disposition of the
   benefit. The failure to report such offer or benefit to the Executive Director
   or designee is a breach of these ethical standards.

   1604.4. In the event the Executive Director or a Board member other than the
   Board Chairperson receives any offer or benefit in violation of any provision
   of §§ 1602-1604 from any person or entity, the Board member or Executive
   Director shall report the benefit to the Board Chairperson who shall determine
   the disposition of the matter or benefit.  In the event that the Board
   Chairperson receives any offer or benefit in violation of any provision of
   §§ 1602-1604 from any person or entity, the Board Chairperson shall report
   the benefit to the full Board who shall determine the disposition of the
   matter or benefit.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 12594, 12597 (December
   31, 2010).
