                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 7-1699)

1699.1   When used in the regulations, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings ascribed:



Bid – An offer to furnish goods and services in conformity with and in
response to specifications, delivery terms and conditions, and other
requirements included in an Invitation For Bids (IFB).



Commercial Items – Items sold to the general public in the course of normal
business operations that are competitively priced and based on established
catalogue or market prices. Commercial products may include corresponding
services for the installation, repair or maintenance associated with the item.



Contracting Officer – The Executive Director and any other employee designated
by the Executive Director, possessing written and express authority to bind the
Board in specified contract matters.



Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) – An employee
appointed, in writing, by a Contracting Officer to perform specified technical
and administrative functions as are detailed in the appointment.



Ethics – Practices or requirements pertaining to appropriate conduct or
motives that conform to professional standards of conduct.



Expression of Interest – A process used to identify potential offerors that
might be interested in an upcoming procurement, and/or to invite comment from
companies with expertise and experience in the matter that will benefit the
development of the specifications or statement of work.



Full and Open Competition – A manner of conducting procurements in which all
responsible sources are permitted to compete.



Goods – Physical (tangible) products, including but not limited to, supplies,
equipment, materials, printing, information technology hardware and software,
and commodities.



Invitation for Bids (IFB) – The solicitation document used for competitive
sealed bidding for the purchase of goods or services.



Offeror – A person or entity that submits a bid or proposal to the Board,
generally in response to an IFB or RFP.



Procurement – The process by which the Board acquires goods and services, by
and for its use through purchase or lease. Procurement begins at the point when
the Board determines that an established need shall be met through contracting
and includes the description of requirements to satisfy the Board’s needs,
solicitation and selection of sources, award of contracts, contract financing,
contract performance, contract administration, and those technical and
management functions directly related to the process of fulfilling Board needs
by contract.



Proposal – An offer to furnish goods or services, in response to a Request for
Proposals (RFP) that, if accepted, would bind the offeror to perform the
resultant contract.



Public Body – Any state, the District of Columbia, any unit or political
subdivision or component of any of the foregoing and any agency of the United
States Government.



Request for Information (RFI) – A process preliminary to a solicitation
requesting information from potential vendors about their products and services.



Request for Proposals (RFP) – The solicitation document used in the
competitive proposal process in which proposals are evaluated on the basis of
technical standards, price and other criteria and in which negotiations with
proposers prior to final selection and award of a contract

is permissible.



Request for Qualifications (RFQ) – The solicitation document used to obtain
Statements of Qualifications from prospective offerors in advance of the
issuance of an Invitation for Bids or a Request for Proposals.



Services – Any activity that directly engages the time and effort of a
contractor whose primary purpose is to perform an identifiable task rather than
to furnish goods. Insurance is a service. Services also include consultation,
advice, design and other work performed by either professional or
non-professional personnel whether on an individual or organizational basis.
This term shall not include employment agreements or collective bargaining
agreements.



Solicitation – Any request to submit qualifications, expressions of interest,
bids, proposals, or quotations to the Board. A Solicitation under sealed bid
procedures are called “Invitations for Bids.” A Solicitation under
competitive proposal procedures is called a “Request for Proposals” under
one-step procurement, and is called “Request for Qualifications” and
“Request for Proposals” under a two-step procurement. Small purchase
solicitations may require submission of either a quotation or an offer (bid or
proposal).



Statement of Qualifications – The submission of qualifications by an offeror
in response to a Request for Qualifications.











	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 12594, 12606 (December
31, 2010).
