                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXEMPTIONS (§ 7-1610)

1610.1. The following procurements may be made without competition and are not
   subject to the competitive requirements set forth in § 1609.
   
   
   
   1610.2   	Small purchases: Procurements at or under the threshold amounts for
   micro purchases established in the Procurement Manual may be made without
   competition.

   1610.3. Sole Source: Goods and services, that are available from only one (1)
   vendor or contractor (sole source) may be purchased without competition.
   Circumstances where sole source purchasing is permitted include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Specific replacement parts or components for equipment;
   
   
   
   (b)	Equipment upgrade and repair, repair services, or parts unavailable from
   			any other source except the original equipment manufacturer or designated
   		service representative;
   
   
   
   (c)	Upgrade to existing software, available only from the producer of the
   			software who sells only on a direct basis;
   
   
   
   (d)	When there is a need to standardize equipment, or to facilitate the  
   			interoperability of equipment or systems;
   
   
   
   (e)	When there is substantial duplication of costs to the Board that is not
   			expected to be recovered through competition;
   
   
   
   (f)	Utility services, when from only one (1) source; or
   
   
   
   (g)	 Intellectual property rights that are owned or controlled by one (1)
   source 			and made available through that source. These rights would include
   			patents, copyrights, licenses, secret processes, and material monopolies or
   			other established rights that affect distribution of goods and services.

   1610.4. Categorical Exemptions: The following categories of purchases are
   exempt from the competitive procurement methods and may be purchased without
   competition:
   
   
   
   (a)	Purchase, rent or lease of land or other interest in real property;
   
   
   
   (b)	Memberships, films, manuscripts, publications, educational services;
   
   
   
   (c)	Personal property sold at an auction by a licensed auctioneer;
   
   
   
   (d)	Personal property or services provided by another public entity, agency or
   			board;
   
   
   
   (e)	Legal services;
   
   
   
   (f)	Research programs;
   
   
   
   (g)	Advertisements in newspapers or other publications;
   
   
   
   (h)	Intergovernmental agreements and cooperative agreements with other        
                    	institutions where the primary purpose is not the purchase
   of goods or 	services; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Travel services.

   1610.5. Emergency Procurements: Emergency Procurements may be made with
   limited competition or without competition. An emergency is a situation which
   creates an immediate need for goods or services that cannot be met through
   normal procurement methods because the lack of these goods or services would
   seriously threaten any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The health or safety of any person;
   
   
   
   (b)	The preservation or protection of property;
   
   
   
   (c)	The continuation of necessary governmental functions; or
   
   
   
   (d)	The Board’s compliance with legal requirements.

   1610.6. The Executive Director, or designee, may approve a non-competitive
   procurement on an emergency basis which does not otherwise comply with the
   requirements of the regulations if the procurement is essential for:
   
   
   
   		(a)	Preventing or avoiding an imminent emergency; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Responding to, mitigating or resolving an existing emergency condition.

   1610.7. In case of an emergency procurement under this Section, a contractor
   may be given a verbal authorization by the Contracting Officer to proceed,
   provided that a written contract or modification is executed as soon	
   thereafter as is reasonably practicable.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 12594, 12602 (December
   31, 2010).
