                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPETITIVE PROCUREMENT METHODS (§ 7-1609)

1609.1. The sealed bid method includes publicizing the solicitation, issuing
   an Invitation for Bids (“IFB”), and the receipt of bids. The Board may
   award a contract to the responsible bidder who submits the lowest responsive
   bid. The sealed bid method may be used if:
   
   
   
   		(a)	There is an adequate and realistic specification or purchase description
   			available;
   
   
   
   (b)	The award will be made on the basis of price and other price-related      
   			factors;
   
   
   
   (c)	It is not necessary to conduct discussions with the responding offerors
   			about their bids; and
   
   
   
   (d) 	There is a reasonable expectation of receiving more than one (1) sealed
   			bid.

   1609.2. The competitive proposal method includes both one-step and two-step
   proposal processes.
   
   
   
   (a)	The one-step process entails:
   
   
   
   (1)	The publicizing of the solicitation;
   
   
   
   (2)	The issuance of a Request for Proposals (“RFP”); and
   
   
   
   (3)	The receipt of proposals.
   
   
   
   (b)	The two-step process entails:
   
   
   
   (1)	The publicizing of the solicitation;
   
   
   
   (2)	The issuance of a Request for Qualifications (“RFQ”);
   
   
   
   (3)	The receipt of Statements of Qualifications from interested
   
         	offerors;
   
   
   
   (4)	The issuance of an RFP to a shortlist of offerors that have      
   			responded to the RFQ and are deemed most qualified; and
   
   
   
   (5)	The receipt of proposals.
   
   
   
   		(c)	Under either process, the Board may negotiate with offerors and seek
   				revised offers.  This procurement method may include a Request for
   				Information or an Expression of Interest before the RFP or RFQ is
   					publicized.
   
   
   
   (d)	In competitive proposal procurements, the Board may award a contract to
   			the offeror whose proposal is most advantageous to the Board.
   
   
   
   (e)	The competitive proposal method may be used when time permits the
   			solicitation, submission, and evaluation of proposals in one (1) or more
   			steps and one (1) or more of the following circumstances apply:
   
   
   
   (1)	There is not a complete, adequate, and realistic specification or
   			purchase description available;
   
   
   
   (2)	 The award will be made on the basis of criteria in addition to price 		or
   price-related factors;
   
   
   
   (3) 	It may be necessary to conduct discussions with the responding
   			offerors about their proposals; or
   
   
   
   (4)	There is a reasonable expectation of receiving more than one
   (1)			Statement of Qualifications and/or proposal.

   1609.4. The Board may use multi-step methods of procurement including any
   combination of competitive methods such as the two-step sealed bidding.

   1609.5. The small purchase method is used for procurements with an estimated
   value less than the threshold amount established in the Procurement Manual.
   Small purchases may be made considering price and the best interests of the
   Board and a determination that the price is reasonable.

   1609.6. The small purchase method may be used for any purchase of commercial
   items.

   1609.7. The small purchase method may be used for any purchase when time is of
   the essence   (expedited purchase). Offers shall be sought from two (2) or
   more sources and purchases may be made considering price and other factors.

   1609.8. Competition may be limited to selected sources when it is determined
   that there are limited sources of supply to fulfill the Board’s
   requirements.

   1609.9. The Board may use the following procurement methods with governmental
   entities:
   
   
   
   (a)	Joint Procurement: The Board may participate in, sponsor, conduct, or
   			administer a joint procurement agreement with one (1) or more public
   			bodies 	to increase efficiency or reduce administrative expenses.
   
   
   
   (b)	 Rider Procurements: The Board may purchase goods and services if:
   
   
   
   (1)	A public body has entered into a contract for goods or services 	according
   to general principles of competitive procurement; and
   
   
   
   (2)	The Board is named or otherwise described in the list of agencies 			that
   may purchase under the contract.
   
   
   
   (c)	General Services Administration Schedule and District Supply Schedule
   	Purchases: The Board may purchase goods or services under schedule 	contracts
   awarded by the General Services Administration or the District 	of Columbia
   Government.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 12594, 12600 (December
   31, 2010).
