                                  DC REGULATIONS

FOOD VENDORS[COLON] LICENSE REQUIREMENTS (ยง 24-821)

821.1. No person shall sell or offer to sell any fruit, food, lunches, candy,
   tobacco, drinks, or similar items in any reviewing stand or in or on any
   street, avenue, alley, or reservation in the Inaugural Area between 6:00 a.m.
   and 7:00 p.m. on Inauguration Day, without first having obtained from the
   District a special license to do so.

   821.2. The privilege granted by special license shall not extend to those
   lands administered by National Capital Parks, National Parks Service, or the
   Department of the Interior, unless a vending permit is obtained from the
   Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary&#8217;s designated representative,
   in accordance with the regulations of National Capital Parks.

   821.3. A special food vending license shall be issued only with the approval
   of the Concessions Committee.

   821.4. The Concessions Committee may, in its discretion, require one (1) or
   more of the following from any applicant for a special license:
   
   
   
   (a)	A fee for any investigation or inspection that it may make;
   
   
   
   (b)	An agreement with the applicant regarding the items to be sold, prices to
   be charged, and any other conditions the Concessions Committee deems proper;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	Any conditions as the Concessions Committee may attach to its approval of
   an application.

   821.5. After the application for a special license has been approved by the
   Concessions Committee and, in the case of food, lunches, candy, drinks, or
   similar items, by the Director of Environmental Services, the special license
   application shall be presented to the Director of Consumer and Regulatory
   Affairs.

   821.6. Upon payment by the applicant of a license fee to the D.C. Treasurer, a
   license may be issued by the Director of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.

   821.7. The licensee shall post with the D.C. Treasurer a deposit in the amount
   as may be prescribed by the Director of Finance and Revenue. The deposit shall
   be in the form of a certified check or U.S. Postal Money Order, and made
   payable to the D.C. Treasurer.

   821.8. The deposit required by ยง821.7 shall later be applied in whole or in
   part to the licensee&#8217;s payment to the District pursuant to the D.C.
   Sales and Use Tax Acts as applicable to the sales the licensee makes.

   821.9. As a prerequisite to the issuance of a special license, the applicant
   shall first obtain a Certificate of Registration in accordance with the
   provisions of the D.C. Sales and Use Tax Acts, authorizing him or her to sell
   tangible personal property at retail and to collect reimbursement of the tax
   specified by the D.C. Sales and Use Tax Acts.

   821.10. The licensee shall make the Certificate of Registration required by
   ยง821.8 available upon request for examination by an officer or member of the
   Metropolitan Police Department, by an investigator of the Department of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, or by the Director of Finance and Revenue.

   821.11. Any license authorized by this section shall continue to be valid only
   so long as the licensee continues to have the approval of the Concessions
   Committee.

   821.12. Each license shall be subject to revocation by the Director of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs whenever he or she receives written notice
   from the Concessions Committee that the Committee has withdrawn its approval
   of the licensee.

   821.13. The acceptance of a special license shall constitute a waiver of any
   and all claims by the licensee against the District government and its
   officers, agents, and employees for loss, damage, or injury because of the
   revocation of the license.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Sections 19(b) &#038; (e) of the Presidential Inauguration Special
   Regulations and Rule of Interpretation Concerning Nonrevival of Statutes Act
   of 1982, D.C. Law 4-125, 29 DCR 2093 (May 21, 1982).
