                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIAL HEALTH REGULATIONS (§ 24-802)

802.1. Notwithstanding the provisions of §24 of Article 17 of the D.C. Police
   Regulations (DCMR 19), automobile house trailers may be parked on private
   property for a period not to exceed the inaugural period, provided a permit to
   do so is obtained from the Director of Environmental Services. No fee shall be
   required for this permit.

   802.2. A permit shall be issued only upon a finding by the Director of
   Environmental Services that there will be available to the occupants of the
   trailers adequate and sufficient water supplies and facilities for disposal of
   sewage and refuse.

   802.3. The Director of Environmental Services shall make any inspections and
   take any necessary steps to obtain compliance with the requirements of this
   section.

   802.4. Notwithstanding the provisions of §24 of Article 17 of the D.C. Police
   Regulations (DCMR 19), the National Railroad Passenger Corporation may
   establish for the inaugural period temporary places of abode in sleeping cars
   located in established railroad yards and sidings within the District, if the
   Director of Environmental Services finds the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the railroad yards and sidings have adequate and sufficient water
   supplies and sewage disposal facilities;
   
   
   
   (b)	That adequate receptacles for refuse services are available;
   
   
   
   (c)	That sufficient lawful garbage receptacles have been provided for all
   dining cars and temporary feeding facilities to store accumulated garbage
   between periods of collection that shall be established by the Director of
   Environmental Services;and
   
   
   
   (d)	That all water and ice supplies are so protected as to prevent
   contamination of these commodities.

   802.5. A license issued by the Director of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs
   shall be required for use of sleeping cars under §802.4.

   802.6. The area or areas used in accordance with §802.4 shall be maintained
   in a clean and sanitary condition at all times.

   802.7. A fee for each license shall be required for each sleeping car used as
   a temporary place of abode, for each calendar day or part of a day the car is
   used. The fee shall be payable to the D.C. Treasurer.

   802.8. During the inaugural period, no chemical toilets shall be used unless
   they are provided with an adequate amount of deodorizing and sanitizing
   chemicals approved by the Director of Environmental Services, and unless they
   are serviced as their use requires.

   802.9. From forty-eight (48) hours prior to, and twelve (12) hours after,
   Inauguration Day, nonresident indigent patients receiving care as emergency
   patients at D.C. General Hospital, Glenn Dale Hospital, or at the private
   hospitals under contract to the District government, shall be considered as
   patients eligible for care at the District&#8217;s expense.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Sections 23-26 of the Presidential Inauguration Special Regulations
   and Rule of Interpretation Concerning Nonrevival of Statutes Act of 1982, D.C.
   Law 4-125, 29 DCR 2093 (May 21, 1982).
