                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS (§ 24-803)

803.1. The provisions of this section shall apply during the inaugural period.

   803.2. Except as provided in §803.3, the Inaugural Area is declared a
   congested area; and no parking shall be permitted in the Inaugural Area on
   Inauguration Day, or until the signs prohibiting parking are removed.

   803.3. The provisions of §803.2 shall not be applicable to the United States
   Capitol grounds, or to the streets and roadways on the Capitol grounds; except
   as specifically agreed to by the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural
   Ceremonies.

   803.4. Except as provided in §803.5, within the Inaugural Area and on the
   highways designated in this chapter, no vehicle shall be parked or left
   standing except when actually taking on or discharging passengers; or, in the
   case of commercial vehicles, while actually loading or unloading merchandise.
   Commercial vehicles, when engaged in loading or unloading merchandise, shall
   stop or stand in a position parallel with the curb.

   803.5. The provisions of §803.4 shall not apply to taxicabs or sight-seeing
   vehicles that may occupy the stands established in the Inaugural Area for a
   period of five (5) days, including Inauguration Day. The provisions of §803.4
   also shall not apply to any special stands as may be established within the
   Inaugural Area, except where the occupying of these stands will interfere with
   the formation or passage of any scheduled parade or ceremony, or with the free
   movement of traffic.

   803.6. The Chief of Police may temporarily close the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The streets and avenues included in the route of any parade;
   
   
   
   (b)	The streets used for ceremony or for an unusual gathering of people in
   connection with any official inaugural activity; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Any intersecting streets, avenues, alleyways, and abutting reservations
   that may be designated by the Chief of Police.

   803.7. The closing of streets shall be for that period of time the Chief of
   Police may deem necessary for the public&#8217;s interest.

   803.8. If, during the period from three (3) days prior to and including
   Inauguration Day, it becomes necessary for the Director of Public Works to
   declare no parking on streets designated as snow emergency routes in
   compliance with 18 DCMR §2417, parking shall be prohibited on the following
   streets:
   
   
   
   (a)	Both sides of C Street, S.E., from New Jersey Avenue to Third Street;
   
   
   
   (b)	Both sides of E Street, S.E., from South Capitol Street to Third Street;
   
   
   
   (c)	Both sides of F Street, N.W., from Twenty-first Street to Twenty-third
   Street;
   
   
   
   (d)	Both sides of G Street, N.W., from Twenty-first Street to Twenty-third
   Street; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Both sides of H Street, N.W., from Twenty-first Street to Twenty-third
   Street.

   803.9. The Chief of Police may suspend or reroute the movement of all
   pedestrian and vehicular traffic; including, with the approval of the
   Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, the operation of buses on any
   street, avenue, or highway in the District. The Chief of Police may also
   divert traffic in the manner and direction the Chief deems is in the
   public&#8217;s interest.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Section 4, 27-29 of the Presidential Inauguration Special Regulations
   and Rule of Interpretation Concerning Nonrevival of Statutes Act of 1982, D.C.
   Law 4-125, 29 DCR 2093 (May 21, 1982).
