                                  DC REGULATIONS

MERCHANDISE VENDORS[COLON] SALE OF MERCHANDISE (ยง 24-818)

818.1. No person to whom the special license authorized by this section has
   been issued shall sell any item of merchandise other than the item or items as
   he or she may be specifically authorized to sell by the Concessions Committee,
   as evidenced in writing on any pass issued to person, or in other written
   authorization furnished to the person by the Concessions Committee.

   818.2. No person to whom the special license authorized by this section has
   been issued shall ply his or her trade between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
   7:00 a.m.

   818.3. No person to whom the special license authorized by this section has
   been issued shall do any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Sell or offer to sell food, drinks, or tobacco;
   
   
   
   (b)	Sell or offer to sell confetti or any kindred substance, or any substance
   or device designed to annoy any person; or
   
   
   
   (c)	On Inauguration Day, sell or offer to sell goods, wares, or merchandise in
   any of the inaugural stands, or in the roadway along the route of the
   inaugural parade, between sunrise and sunset, or until the parade has passed,
   whichever is later.

   818.4. No person to whom the special license authorized by this section has
   been issued shall remain in any one (1) place upon any of the highways or
   public spaces for a period that is longer than necessary to make a sale after
   having been specifically authorized to remain in the location by the
   Concessions Committee and the Chief of Police.

   818.5. No person to whom the special license authorized by this section has
   been issued shall interfere with traffic or cause annoyance to residents or
   passersby.

   818.6. No person to whom the special license authorized by this section has
   been issued shall ply his or her trade in violation of traffic regulations.

   818.7. No person to whom the special license authorized by this section has
   been issued shall ply his or her trade in any of the following places:
   
   
   
   (a)	Upon any of the highways in front of or around any public or private
   school during any times that the school is in session;
   
   
   
   (b)	Upon arterial or boulevard highways; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Upon any highway around the following circles or grounds:
   
   
   
   (1)	Dupont Circle;
   
   
   
   (2)	Scott Circle;
   
   
   
   (3)	Thomas Circle;
   
   
   
   (4)	Logan Circle;
   
   
   
   (5)	Sheridan Circle;
   
   
   
   (6)	Washington Circle; or
   
   
   
   (7)	The grounds of the United States Capitol or the Library of Congress.

   818.8. No person to whom the special license authorized by this section has
   been issued shall ply his or her trade upon any of the following streets or
   avenues:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any street intersecting with highways around a circle or ground listed in
   ยง818.7(c) for a distance of one hundred feet (100 ft.) from the outer edge of
   these highways;
   
   
   
   (b)	Pennsylvania Avenue between First and Sixth Streets, N.W.;
   
   
   
   (c)	The south side of Pennsylvania Avenue between East Executive and West
   Executive Avenues, N.W.;
   
   
   
   (d)	South Executive Avenue, N.W.;
   
   
   
   (e)	State Place; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Alexander Hamilton Place, N.W.

   818.9. No person to whom the special license authorized by this section has
   been issued shall ply his or her trade within the area bounded by Fourteenth
   Street, N.W. and S.W., on the east; Constitution Avenue, N.W., on the north;
   and the Potomac River on the west and south.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Section 18(a)(5) of the Presidential Inauguration Special Regulations
   and Rule of Interpretation Concerning Nonrevival of Statutes Act of 1982, D.C.
   Law 4-125, 29 DCR 2093 (May 21, 1982).
