                                  DC REGULATIONS

MERCHANDISE VENDORS[COLON] LICENSE REQUIREMENTS (§ 24-815)

815.1. The provisions of §§815 through 819 shall apply during the inaugural
   period.

   815.2. No person shall sell, offer for sale, or distribute any goods, wares,
   or merchandise in or on any street or avenue (including the roadway,
   treespace, sidewalk, and parking area), alley, park, or reservation in the
   Inaugural Area, without first having obtained a special license from the
   Director of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs (also referred to in §§815
   through 819 as the &#8220;Director&#8221;) to exercise this privilege.

   815.3. The privilege granted by special license shall not extend to those
   lands administered by National Capital Parks, National Park Service, or the
   Department of the Interior, unless a vending permit is obtained from the
   Secretary of the Interior or his or her designated representative in
   accordance with the regulations of National Capital Parks.

   815.4. Except as provided in §817, the special license shall authorize the
   licensee, during the effective period of this act, to ply his or her trade,
   and to use a display board in connection with the trade. The size of the
   display board shall not exceed three feet by five feet (3 ft. x 5 ft.),
   exclusive of legs, from or upon any street, avenue, alley, or public
   reservation in the District, including the Inaugural Area.

   815.5. The special license is not applicable to the United States Capitol
   grounds.

   815.6. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, persons holding a valid
   license issued under the provisions of chapter 5 of this title may, during the
   inaugural period, operate on the licensed vendor stands in the manner and
   subject to the limitations established by this chapter. Nothing in this
   section shall be construed as requiring the persons licensed under the
   provisions of chapter 5 to secure the special license regulating sales of
   goods, wares, and merchandise in the Inaugural Area during the inaugural
   period; Provided, that they observe strictly the limitations set forth in this
   chapter.

   815.7. The provisions of this section shall not be construed as applying to
   any authorized person, properly identified by a card issued by the Inaugural
   Committee, engaged in the sale of the Inaugural Committee&#8217;s official
   souvenirs, medals, programs, and guidebooks. At the same time, nothing
   contained in this subsection shall be construed to permit a vendor selling
   official souvenirs, medals, programs, or guidebooks to sell any other items of
   merchandise without first having complied with the provisions of this chapter.

   815.8. The special license shall be issued after approval by the Concessions
   Committee of both the applicant for the license and the goods, wares, or
   merchandise to be offered for sale under the license applied for; and after
   approval of the applicant by the Director.

   815.9. Upon securing the required approvals by the Concessions Committee and
   the Director, and upon payment to the Concessions Committee of the fee fixed
   by the Committee, a certificate of approval signed by the designated
   representative of the Committee shall be presented to the Director.

   815.10. A special license may be issued by the Director upon payment to the
   D.C. Treasurer of a license fee for each license.

   815.11. The posting of a deposit with the D.C. Treasurer, in the form of a
   certified check or U.S. Postal Money Order, payable to the D.C. Treasurer,
   shall be made in the amount as may be prescribed by the Director of Finance
   and Revenue.

   815.12. The deposit shall be applied later to the tax imposed on the licensee
   by the D.C. Sales and Use Tax Acts, as applicable to the sales made by him or
   her.

   815.13. As a prerequisite to the issuance of a license, the applicant shall
   first obtain a Certificate of Registration in accordance with the provisions
   of the D.C. Sales and Use Tax Acts, authorizing him or her to sell tangible
   personal property at retail and to collect reimbursement of the tax specified
   by the D.C. Sales and Use Tax Acts.

   815.14. The licensee shall make his or her Certificate of Registration
   available for examination by an officer or member of the Metropolitan Police
   Department, by an investigator of the Department of Consumer and Regulatory
   Affairs, or by the Director of Finance and Revenue, whenever a request for
   examination is made.

   815.15. The issuance of a license under the provisions of this section is
   preconditioned on the fact that the pass or badge of the licensee may be
   immediately revoked and taken up upon demand by any member of the Metropolitan
   Police Department or any other duly qualified law enforcement personnel,
   including members of the U.S. Park Police. The pass or badge may be revoked
   when the licensee is found violating any provision of law, regulations, this
   title or the National Capital Park regulations; or when the licensee is found
   to have furnished any false or misleading information in connection with his
   or her license application.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Sections 18(a)(1)-(a)(4), (c), (d), &#038; (e) of the Presidential
   Inauguration Special Regulations and Rule of Interpretation Concerning
   Nonrevival of Statutes Act of 1982, D.C. Law 4-125, 29 DCR 2093 (May 21,
   1982).
