                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONCESSION STANDS[COLON] GENERAL REQUIREMENTS (§ 24-825)

825.1. The provisions of §§825 through 830 shall apply during the inaugural
   period.

   825.2. No person shall set up any stand or booth to sell, offer for sale, or
   distribute any fruit, food, lunches, candy, tobacco, drinks, or similar items
   on any street, avenue, alley, or public reservation at any point between the
   established building lines, without first having the operation and location of
   the stand or booth approved by the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Concessions Committee;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Chief of Police;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Fire Chief;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Director of Environmental Services; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The D.C. Department of Public Works.

   825.3. The approval of the Secretary of the Interior, or his or her designated
   representative, shall be required in the case of sites on Federal reservations
   or grounds under the Secretary&#8217;s jurisdiction.

   825.4. Approval of the Concessions Committee shall be conditioned upon the
   agreement of the licensee to comply with the requirements for the
   construction, operation, and sanitation of food concession stands as are
   required by this chapter and other District regulations, and any other
   conditions the Concessions Committee may require.

   825.5. After a concessions stand or booth has been approved, a card or placard
   issued by the Director of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs shall be attached to
   it indicating that the location and operation of the stand or booth have been
   approved.

   825.6. Whenever the Director of Environmental Services has reason to believe
   that any food vendor, or the operation of any food stand or mobile food
   dispensing unit, creates an imminent danger to public health, the Director
   shall be authorized to require the food vendor, or the operator of the food
   stand or mobile food dispensing unit, to cease operating until the condition
   creating the imminent danger to public health is corrected to Director&#8217;s
   satisfaction.

   825.7. Concession stands shall be removed not later than forty-eight (48)
   hours after Inauguration Day.

   825.8. All other stands, booths, and temporary structures shall be removed by
   the date set by Inaugural Committee or Concessions Committee contracts.

   825.9. If the person responsible for the erection of any stand, booth, or
   temporary structure has failed to remove the structure within the time
   specified by this section, the cost of removal, whether removal is by or under
   the authority of the Inaugural Committee or the District, shall be at the
   person&#8217;s expense.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Sections 20(a), (q) &#038; (r) of the Presidential Inauguration
   Special Regulations and Rule of Interpretation Concerning Nonrevival of
   Statutes Act of 1982, D.C. Law 4-125, 29 DCR 2093 (May 21, 1982).
