                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADVERTISING (ยง 17-4216)

4216.1. A dentist licensed under the Act shall include the dentist&#8217;s
   name as the name appears on his or her District of Columbia dental license in
   any advertisement of dental services appearing in any newspaper, airwave
   transmission, telephone directory or other advertising medium in the District
   of Columbia.

   4216.2. A dentist may not, on behalf of himself or herself, his or her
   partner, or his or her associate, or for any other dentist affiliated with him
   or her, use or participate in the use of any form of public communication,
   which contains a deceptive or misleading statement or claim.

   4216.3. For purposes of this section, deceptive or misleading statements or
   claims are those that:
   
   
   
   (a)	Contain a material misrepresentation of fact;
   
   
   
   (b)	Fail to state any fact necessary to make the statement not misleading;
   
   
   
   (c)	Are intended or are likely to create unjustified expectations;
   
   
   
   (d)	State or imply superior service;
   
   
   
   (e)	Contain a representation or implication that is likely to cause an
   ordinary prudent person to misunderstand or to be deceived, or that fails to
   contain reasonable warnings or disclaimers necessary to make a representation
   or implication not deceptive;
   
   
   
   (f)	Contain statistical data or other information based on past performance
   coupled with an explicit representation that the data or information indicates
   a likelihood of future success;
   
   
   
   (g)	Contain or imply any guarantee of satisfaction, except the guarantee to
   return a fee if the patient is not satisfied with the treatment rendered;
   
   
   
   (h)	Use electronic media, including television, radio, internet, and motion
   pictures, in a manner inconsistent with these regulations and the following
   criteria:
   
   
   
   (1)	Broadcast advertising shall be communicated to the public only over radio
   or television stations that are approved by the Federal Communications
   Commission or over cable television,
   
   
   
   (2)	Broadcast advertisements shall be prerecorded, and approved for broadcast
   by the advertising dentist, and
   
   
   
   (3)	A recording of the actual transmission shall be retained by the
   advertising dentist for a period of 3 years;
   
   
   
   (i)	Fail to include the name of a responsible licensed dentist who provides
   dental services at the location advertised;
   
   
   
   (j)	Falsely state or imply that a dentist is a certified or recognized
   specialist recognized by the American Dental Association Commission on Dental
   Accreditation;
   
   
   
   (k)	Claims to be a specialist or uses any of the terms to designate a dental
   specialty unless he or she is entitled to such specialty designation under the
   guidelines or requirements for specialties approved by the American Dental
   Association, or such guidelines or requirements as subsequently amended and
   approved by the board, or other such organization recognized by the board.
   
   
   
   (l)	State or imply that a dentist practices in an area of dental specialty
   unless the dentist:
   
   
   
   (1)	Is recognized by the Board as a specialist in the area advertised,
   
   
   
   (2)	Includes in the advertisement a disclaimer that the dentist is not
   recognized by the Board as a specialist in the area of practice advertised, or
   
   
   
   (3)	Includes in the advertisement a statement that the dentist is a general
   dentist; and
   
   
   
   (m)	State that the dentist practices or advocates &#8220;mercury-free&#8221;
   dentistry or removes mercury amalgams for replacement of nonmercury containing
   materials, unless that advertisement includes a readable disclaimer which
   states: &#8220;The National Institutes of Health has determined that there are
   no verifiable systemic health benefits resulting from the removal of mercury
   amalgams.&#8221;

   4216.4. A general dentist who limits his or her practice shall state in
   conjunction with his or her name that he or she is a general dentist providing
   only certain services, e.g., orthodontic services.

   4216.5. Except as provided in ยง 4216.6 of this chapter, a dentist shall not:
   
   
   
   (a)	State or imply that another dentist practices at a dental office or
   location who in fact does not practice at that site; or
   
   
   
   (b)	State or imply an affiliation with a dentist with whom the dentist does
   not have a legal affiliation.

   4216.6. For one year following the dissolution of a partnership, affiliation
   or professional arrangement, a dentist may continue to use advertising
   containing the name of the former partner or dentist with whom he or she was
   affiliated, if the other dentist has expressly consented to such use, or is
   deceased.

   4216.7. A statement regarding fees shall be considered deceptive or misleading
   if the dentist:
   
   
   
   (a)	Renders the service at more than the fees advertised; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Fails to offer the service at the fee advertised for a reasonable period
   of time following the advertisement unless a specific time limit is included
   in the original advertisement.

   4216.8. Any statement specifying a fee for a dental service which does not
   include the cost of all related procedures, services, and products which, to a
   substantial likelihood, will be necessary for the completion of the advertised
   services as it would be understood by an ordinarily prudent person shall be
   deemed to be deceptive or misleading. Where reasonable disclosure of all
   relevant variables and considerations is made, a statement of a range of fees
   for specifically described dental services shall not be deemed to be deceptive
   or misleading.

   4216.9. Discount offers for a dental service are permissible for advertising
   only when the nondiscounted or full fee and the final discounted fee are also
   disclosed in the advertisement. The dentist shall maintain documented evidence
   to substantiate the discounted fee.

   4216.10. A dentist shall be responsible for an advertisement of service
   regardless of whether the advertising has been generated by him or her
   personally, by his or her employees, or by a proprietorship, partnership,
   corporation, union, public school clinic, state institution, or charitable
   institution which uses his or her services.

   4216.11. A dentist shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Retain a copy of all advertising, in the form in which it was published,
   for a period of 3 years from the date of publication or transmission; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Make the copy available for inspection and copying when requested by the
   Board.

   4216.12. Within thirty (30) days of receiving a request from the Board, a
   dentist shall submit documentation, video or audio recordings, or other
   evidence to substantiate the truthfulness of any assertion or representation
   of material fact set forth in an advertisement. If the dentist fails or
   refuses to comply with the request, the Board may draw an adverse inference
   from such failure or refusal in any subsequent hearing or disciplinary action
   on the substance of the complaint or investigation, should such a hearing or
   action occur.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 298 (January 9, 2009).
