                                  DC REGULATIONS

UNAUTHORIZED PRACTICE (ยง 17-4217)

4217.1. A dentist shall not engage in any treatment, therapy, or testing in
   the District of Columbia that is not:
   
   
   
   (a)	Within the scope of the practice of dentistry pursuant to D.C. Official
   Code ยง 3-1201.02(5)(2001);
   
   
   
   (b)	Commonly used in dental practice in the United States; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Currently taught in United States dental schools or dental residency
   programs accredited by the American Dental Association Commission on Dental
   Accreditation.

   4217.2. A dentist shall not perform any extraoral aesthetic or cosmetic
   procedures in the District of Columbia including but not limited to laser hair
   removal, skin resurfacing, skin refirming, skin tightening, skin rejuvenation,
   or injection of substances into the body for the purpose of wrinkle-removal,
   unless he or she:
   
   
   
   (a)	Holds an active District of Columbia dental license in good standing;
   
   
   
   (b)  	Has successfully completed an oral and maxillofacial surgery residency
   program accredited by the American Dental Association Commission on Dental
   Accreditation;
   
   
   
   (c)	Only performs aesthetic or cosmetic procedures above the clavicle or
   within the head and neck region of the body; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Only performs those procedures which are appropriate to his or her
   training and experience.

   4217.3. A dentist shall not employ, contract with, supervise, or otherwise aid
   or assist another individual in the performance of extraoral aesthetic or
   cosmetic procedures in the District of Columbia including but not limited to
   laser hair removal, skin resurfacing, dermabrasion, skin refirming, skin
   tightening, skin rejuvenation, or injection of substances into the body for
   the purpose of wrinkle-removal unless the individual actually performing the
   procedures meets the requirements set forth in ยง 4217.2 of this chapter or is
   otherwise licensed and authorized under the Act to perform such procedures.

   4217.4. A dentist shall not employ, contract with, supervise, or otherwise aid
   or assist another individual in the performance of general spa services and
   procedures in the District of Columbia including but not limited to massage
   therapy, facials, tooth bleaching, cosmetic tattooing, manicures, or
   pedicures, unless the individually actually performing the procedures is duly
   licensed or otherwise authorized under applicable District of Columbia law to
   perform the procedures.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 301 (January 9, 2009); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 6989 (August 28, 2009).
