                                  DC REGULATIONS

LICENSURE BY ENDORSEMENT (§ 17-4209)

4209.1 	An applicant is eligible to apply for licensure by endorsement in the
   District of Columbia if the applicant:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Meets the education requirements set forth under § 4202 of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Has successfully completed Part I and Part II of the examination of the
   Joint Commission on National Dental Examinations;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Is currently licensed, in good standing, to practice dentistry in another
   state of the United States; and
   
   
   
   (d) 	Has passed the NERB or ADEX examination, which shall include a passing
   score on the Periodontal Examination;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Has passed a regional board examination, other than the NERB examination,
   and meets the active practice requirements set forth in § 4209.3(f) of this
   chapter; or
   
   
   
   (f) 	Has passed a state dental examination determined by the Board to be
   substantially equivalent, and meets the active practice requirements set forth
   in § 4209.3(f) of this chapter.

   4209.2. An applicant holding an active license to practice dentistry in any
   other state, who has passed the NERB examination or the ADEX examination,
   shall apply for licensure by endorsement as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit a completed application to the Board on the required forms and
   include:
   
   
   
   (1)	The applicant&#8217;s social security number on the application; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Two (2) recent passport-type photographs of the applicant&#8217;s face
   measuring two inches by two inches (2&#8221; x 2&#8243;) which clearly expose
   the area from the top of the forehead to the bottom of the chin.
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit a copy of his or her current license with the application;
   
   
   
   (c)	Obtain verification from each state in which the applicant holds or has
   ever held a professional health occupation license, that the license is
   current and in good standing, or if the license is no longer active, that it
   was in good standing immediately prior to its expiration. The licensure
   verification form must be sent directly to the Board, by the verifying Board;
   
   
   
   (d)	Submit a copy of the applicant’s NERB or ADEX examination results, which
   have been certified or validated by the NERB or ADEX;
   
   
   
   (e)	Submit the applicant&#8217;s examination results which have been certified
   or validated by the Joint Commission of National Dental Examinations;
   
   
   
   (f)	Pass the District of Columbia Dental Law Examination; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Pay all required fees.

   4209.3. An applicant holding an active license to practice dentistry in any
   other state, who has passed a regional board examination other than the NERB
   or ADEX examination, shall apply for licensure by endorsement as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit a completed application to the Board on the required forms and
   include:
   
   
   
   (1)	The applicant&#8217;s social security number on the application; and (2)
   Two (2) recent passport-type photographs of the applicant&#8217;s face
   measuring two inches by two inches (2&#8243; x 2&#8243;) which clearly expose
   the area from the top of the forehead to the bottom of the chin.
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit a copy of his or her current license with the application;
   
   
   
   (c)	Obtain verification from each state in which the applicant holds or has
   ever held a professional health occupation license, that the license is
   current and in good standing, or if the license is no longer active, that it
   was in good standing immediately prior to its expiration. The licensure
   verification form must be sent directly to the Board, by the verifying Board;
   
   
   
   (d)	Submit the applicant&#8217;s regional board examination results, which
   have been certified or validated by the regional board;
   
   
   
   (e)	Submit the applicant&#8217;s examination results, which have been
   certified or validated by the Joint Commission of National Dental
   Examinations;
   
   
   
   (f)	Submit evidence satisfactory to the Board establishing that the applicant
   has been actively engaged in the practice of dentistry, in another U.S. state,
   in good standing, for the five (5) years immediately preceding the
   application, and has at least eight hundred and fifty (850) hours of active
   dental practice. The practice of dentistry in the armed forces, state and
   federal programs, and intern and residency programs may be counted toward the
   required hours of active practice;
   
   
   
   (g)	Pass the District of Columbia Dental Law Examination; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Pay all required fees.

   4209.4. In addition to the requirements set forth in this section, the Board
   may, in its discretion, require an applicant for licensure by endorsement to
   take and successfully complete a competency examination, or any portion
   thereof deemed necessary by the Board, as a prerequisite to licensure if the
   applicant&#8217;s licensure in any state was ever denied, revoked, or
   suspended for incompetency or inability to practice in a safe manner.

   4209.5. An application that remains incomplete for ninety (90) days or more
   from the date of submission shall be considered abandoned, and closed by the
   Board. The applicant shall thereafter be required to reapply, submit the
   required documents and completed forms, and pay the required fees.

   4209.6. Nothing is this section shall be construed to prohibit the Board from
   utilizing other authorized databases to verify an applicant&#8217;s current
   licensure standing in other jurisdictions of the U.S. or to review
   disciplinary records.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 927, 934 (February 12, 1988); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 10682 (December 9, 2005);
   Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 4452 (June 2, 2006); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8527, 8528 (July 20, 2012); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16841 (December 13, 2013).
