                                  DC REGULATIONS

RENTAL ASSISTANCE (§ 29-7609)

7609.1. HPRP rental assistance is solely for the purpose of assisting eligible
   households to quickly achieve housing stability by assisting them to remain in
   their existing rental units or to obtain and remain in a new rental unit.

   7609.2. As a condition of receipt of HPRP rental assistance, the applicant
   shall agree to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Enter into a lease and comply with the terms of such lease;
   
   
   
   (b)	Contribute up to thirty percent (30%) of their adjusted annual income
   toward the cost for housing, in accordance with subsection 7609.3;
   
   
   
   (c)	Accept a unit that meets the program unit criteria in accordance with
   subsection 7609.4; and;
   
   
   
   (d)	If applicable, apply for all public benefits and housing assistance for
   which the applicant is eligible, including applying for housing assistance
   from the District of Columbia Housing Authority.

   7609.3. Each household shall contribute toward the cost for housing up to
   thirty percent (30%) of their adjusted annual income, determined in accordance
   with the District of Columbia Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCVP)
   regulations found at 14 DCMR § 6200.  The HPRP rental assistance shall be the
   difference in the cost of housing.  For purposes of this section, the cost of
   housing shall include the cost of utilities, as determined in accordance with
   the HCVP regulations found at 14 DCMR § 6200.

   7609.4. Receipt of HPRP rental assistance is conditioned on living in a rental
   unit that passes a housing inspection and meets HUD’s “Rent
   Reasonableness” standard.  HUD defines Rent Reasonableness to mean that the
   total rent charged for a unit must be reasonable in relation to the rents
   being charged during the same time period for comparable units in the private
   unassisted market and must not be in excess of rents being charged by the
   owner during the same time period for comparable non-luxury unassisted units.

   7609.5. The initial rental assistance benefit (short-term rental assistance)
   shall not exceed the equivalent of rental costs accrued over a period of three
   (3) months.

   7609.6. If a household receiving short-term rental assistance needs additional
   rental assistance to achieve housing stability, the Program shall evaluate the
   household for eligibility to receive additional months of medium-term rental
   assistance in accordance with subsection 7609.7.  Upon determining the
   participant’s eligibility for additional rental assistance, the Program
   shall provide the household with a Notice of Eligibility and Assistance
   Determination in accordance with subsection 7601.14 or subsection 7601.16.

   7609.7. For households receiving medium-term rental assistance, the HPRP
   Program shall evaluate the household for eligibility at least once every three
   months to receive up to three (3) additional months of medium-term rental
   assistance, for no more than a total of fifteen (15) months of medium-term
   rental assistance.  Upon determining the participant’s eligibility for
   additional rental assistance, the Program shall provide the household with a
   Notice of Eligibility and Assistance Determination in accordance with
   subsection 7601.14 or subsection 7601.16.

   7609.8. Households receiving medium-term rental assistance shall demonstrate
   their ability to eventually pay the full rental amount by paying an increasing
   share of the rental payment no less than at three month intervals coinciding
   with the three (3) month household recertification requirement set forth in
   subsection 7609.7.  For purposes of this section, the household’s share
   shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of their adjusted annual income,
   determined in accordance with subsection 7609.3.

   7609.9. Households unable to meet the requirement to pay an increased share of
   the rental payment at the three month recertification shall be evaluated on a
   case-by-case basis to determine their continued eligibility based on their
   ability to demonstrate capacity to meet the HPRP housing stability
   requirement.

   7609.10. Households receiving short or medium-term rental assistance shall be
   required to report any change in the household’s monthly income as soon as
   the change occurs.

   7609.11. Upon written notification by the household of a change in the
   household’s monthly income, the HPRP Provider shall determine if there is a
   need to recalculate the amount of the household’s housing cost contribution,
   based on the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If the household is reporting a decrease in monthly income of fifty dollars
   ($50.00) or more, a recalculation shall be conducted.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If the recalculation pursuant to subsection (a) results in an increase in the
   amount of HPRP rental assistance, the change shall be effective the first day
   of the month (or the next day that rent is due) following completion of the
   calculation.  The recalculation shall be completed within five (5) business
   days of receipt of written notice by the household of the decrease in
   household income and any documentation necessary for the Provider’s
   recalculation.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If the household is reporting an increase in monthly income of one hundred
   dollars ($100.00) or more, a recalculation shall be conducted.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If the recalculation pursuant to subsection (c) results in a decrease in the
   amount of HPRP rental assistance, the change shall be effective the first of
   the month (or on the day that rent is next due if different than the first of
   the month) following the month in which notice of the change in accordance
   with subsection 7609.12 is provided to the household, except that if the next
   day rent is due is less than fifteen (15) calendar days from the date the
   notice is either hand delivered or postmarked, the change in the HPRP rental
   assistance shall be effective the second month (or the second date upon which
   rent is due) following the month in which notice of the change made in
   accordance with subsection 7609.12 is provided to the household.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Notice of a change in assistance pursuant to this section shall be made in
   accordance with subsection 7609.12.

   7609.12. When a Provider calculates a change in HPRP rental assistance,
   pursuant to either a recertification under subsection 7609.6 or subsection
   7609.7 or as a result of a reported change in income pursuant to subsection
   7609.10, the Provider shall give to the participant household a Notice of
   Change in HPRP Rental Assistance.  This notice shall include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A clear statement of the factual basis for the change in rental assistance;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A reference to the regulation or policy pursuant to which the change was made;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A clear and detailed statement of the household’s current HPRP rental
   assistance and the household’s current share of the housing costs;
   
   
   
   (d)	A clear and detailed computation of the new amount of HPRP rental
   assistance and the new amount of the household’s share of the housing costs;
   
   
   
   (e)	The effective date of the new amount of rental assistance in accordance
   with subsection 7609.11(b) or subsection 7609.11(d), whichever is applicable;
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A clear and complete statement of the client&#8217;s right to a
   reconsideration of the recalculation by the Department or the Department’s
   designee, if such reconsideration is requested within ten (10) calendar days
   of receipt of the Notice.  A reconsideration shall be completed with five (5)
   business days of receipt by the designated reviewer of the household’s
   request for a reconsideration.  The five (5) business day timeframe may be
   tolled if the reviewer has requested documentation necessary to the review and
   receipt of such documentation is pending and not within the control of the
   reviewer.

   7609.13. Notice required by subsection 7609.12 shall be either hand-delivered
   to a member of the applicant household or mailed to the household by 1st class
   mail within twenty-four (24) hours of the Provider’s calculation of the
   change in the household’s rental assistance share.  The date from which the
   timeliness of the notice is measured is either the date of hand-delivery or,
   if mailed, the date the notice is postmarked.

   7609.14. The monthly HPRP rental assistance that may be issued per month shall
   not exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) per month for
   individuals or two thousand two hundred dollars ($2,200) per month for
   families.
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 2116
   (March 12, 	2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 	5973 (July 9, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 1566, 	1581 (February 25,
   2011).
