                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION PROCESS (§ 29-7601)

7601.1. Each application shall be in writing on a form prescribed by the
   Department and signed by the applicant under penalty of perjury.  If the
   applicant is married and living with a spouse, both spouses shall sign the
   application as an applicant unit (hereinafter “applicant”).

   7601.2. An authorized representative may apply on behalf of the applicant, if
   the applicant provides a written and signed statement stating why the
   applicant cannot apply in person and the name and address of the person
   authorized to act on the applicant’s behalf.

   7601.3. If requested by an applicant with a disability, or the authorized
   representative of an applicant with a disability, the Provider shall assist
   such applicant or authorized representative with any aspect of the application
   process necessary to ensure that the applicant with a disability has an equal
   opportunity to submit an application.
   
   
   
   7601.4  	The Department shall provide application forms and the Provider shall
   accept applications from each applicant who requests assistance.
   
   
   
    7601.5  	At the time of application, each applicant shall be provided with a
   clear, concise, written notice containing the applicant’s rights and
   responsibilities and the Provider’s responsibilities with respect to the
   Program.  The Provider shall request that all applicants sign a document
   acknowledging receipt of this notice.

   7601.6. As part of the application process, all applicants shall sign a
   release form authorizing the Provider to obtain or verify information
   necessary to process the application.

   7601.7. In order to receive HPRP assistance, a household shall participate in
   an initial consultation with either the HPRP outreach team or the HPRP
   Provider to determine the appropriate type of assistance to meet their housing
   needs and shall receive an eligibility determination from an HPRP Provider.

   7601.8. Each applicant shall cooperate fully in establishing his or her
   eligibility, including the basis of the applicant’s homelessness or risk of
   homelessness, and the extent of the need.  This shall include, but not be
   limited to, providing documentation or collateral proof of:
   
   
   
   (a)	Household composition;
   
   
   
   (b)	Employment status and employment history;
   
   
   
   (c)	Income and assets;
   
   
   
   (d)	Household expenses;
   
   
   
   (e)	Facts and circumstances surrounding homelessness or risk of homelessness;
   
   
   
   (f)	Financial and other assets available or obtainable in the short-term to
   support housing stability; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Facts and circumstances surrounding financial and other barriers to
   housing stability.

   7601.9. The Provider shall give to each applicant a written request specifying
   the information needed to complete the application and the Provider shall
   discuss with the applicant how to obtain the information.  The application is
   complete when all required information is furnished.

   7601.10. The Provider may use documents, telephone conversations, personal and
   collateral interviews, reports, correspondence, and conferences to verify
   applicant information.

   7601.11. The Provider shall complete the eligibility and assistance
   determination in as short a time as possible but not later than ten (10)
   calendar days after the date of a completed application. The Provider shall
   not be responsible for delays caused by:
   
   
   
   (a)	The applicant’s failure to supply information to document facts stated
   in the completed application without which eligibility or benefits cannot be
   determined;
   
   
   
   	(b)	The inability to contact the applicant;
   
   
   
   	(c)	Evidence of misrepresentation in the application;
   
   
   
   (d)	Delay by a third party from whom the Provider has requested information
   	and over whom the Provider has no control; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Any other delay in receipt of information or documentation necessary to
   complete the application over which the Provider has no control.

   7601.12. If an applicant is expected to lose their housing in less than ten
   (10) calendar days following the date of application, the Provider shall take
   all reasonable steps to process the application in an expedited manner in time
   to prevent the loss of housing if the applicant meets all eligibility criteria
   and a delay in processing the application is not caused by the failure of the
   applicant to provide documentation necessary for making an eligibility or
   assistance determination.

   7601.13. The Provider shall create and maintain in the applicant’s or
   participant’s file a clear and detailed documentation of the Program’s
   eligibility determination of each applicant, particularly as it relates to the
   household’s eligibility for homelessness prevention assistance in accordance
   with subsection 7603.1(b), and the household’s demonstration that it has no
   other housing options identified and that the household lacks the financial
   resources and support networks needed to obtain immediate housing or remain in
   its existing housing in accordance with subsection 7603.1(f).

   7601.14. If an applicant is determined eligible for HPRP assistance, the
   Provider shall give to the applicant a Notice of Eligibility and Assistance
   Determination and include in this notice:
   
   
   
   	(a)	A clear statement of the eligibility determination;
   
   
   
   (b)	A clear and detailed statement of the assistance for which the applicant
   has been determined eligible, the amount of the assistance, if applicable, and
   the computation of assistance, if applicable;
   
   
   
   (c)	A clear statement of the HPRP requirement that all HPRP participants shall
   be re-evaluated and eligibility re-determined at least once every three (3)
   months for any HPRP rental assistance or case management lasting longer than
   three (3) months.
   
   
   
   (d)	Any information required from the recipient to authorize the Provider to
   proceed with the disbursement of the HPRP assistance to the appropriate
   vendor(s); and
   
   
   
   (e)	A clear and complete statement of the client&#8217;s right to appeal the
   eligibility or assistance determination through fair hearing and
   administrative review proceedings in accordance with section 7611, including
   the appropriate deadlines for instituting the appeal.

   7601.15. If an applicant is determined eligible and given a Notice of
   Eligibility and Assistance Determination, but the specific computation of
   assistance cannot be completed until a later date, the provider shall reissue
   the Notice of Eligibility and Assistance Determination with the updated
   computation worksheet and a confirmation of assistance when all information
   necessary to complete it has been received.

   7601.16. If an applicant is determined ineligible for HPRP assistance, the
   Provider shall give to the applicant a Notice of Eligibility and Assistance
   Determination and include in this notice:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A clear statement of the denial of eligibility;
   
   
   
   (b) 	A clear statement of the factual basis for the denial;
   
   
   
   (c) 	A reference to the statute, regulation, or policy pursuant to which
   denial was made; and
   
   
   
   (d) 	A clear and complete statement of the client&#8217;s right to appeal the
   denial through fair hearing and administrative review proceedings pursuant to
   section 7611, including the appropriate deadlines for instituting the appeal.

   7601.17. An application shall be considered abandoned if the applicant has not
   obtained and provided to the Provider the required information for eligibility
   and assistance determination within sixty (60) calendar days of the date of
   application.
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 2116
   (March 12, 	2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 	5973 (July 9, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 1566, 	1567 (February 25,
   2011).
