                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 29-7699)

The following terms shall have the meaning ascribed:



Authorized Representative – an individual who is at least eighteen (18) years
of age, who is acting responsibly on behalf of the applicant, and has sufficient
knowledge of the circumstances of the applicant to provide or obtain necessary
information about the applicant, or a person who has legal authorization to act
on behalf of the applicant.



Department – the District of Columbia Department of Human Services or its
designated agent.



Equity – current market value of property less any lien indebtedness on the
property and less reasonable expenses necessary to liquidate the property.



Household Member with a Disability – a member of the applicant unit who is
disabled, as documented by medical evidence provided by a qualified professional
or by participation in a program which conditions its eligibility on the
documentation of disability.



Housing Stability – the ability to pay housing costs, including rent and
utilities, necessary to retain housing without HPRP assistance.



Joint Legal Responsibility – the individual household members are named on the
deed (as tenants in common or joint tenants), or rental lease.



Minor child – a child, including those by adoption, eighteen (18) years of age
or younger.



SSI – the Supplemental Security Income for the Aged, Blind, and Disabled cash
assistance program authorized by Title XVI of the Social Security Act of 1935,
as amended (42 U.S.C. §§ 1381 to 1383f).



	Provider – an organization that receives Homelessness Prevention and Rapid
Re-Housing funds and is authorized to administer and deliver Homelessness
Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing services.



	Rent Reasonableness Standard – Rent Reasonableness is defined by the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development to mean that the total rent
charged for a unit must be reasonable in relation to the rents being charged
during the same time period for comparable units in the private unassisted
market and must not be in excess of rents being charged by the owner during the
same time period for comparable non-luxury unassisted units.



	Rental Arrearages – amount due in unpaid rent, which may include reasonable
late fees.



Rental Payment – a regular payment made by a tenant to an owner or landlord
		for the right to occupy or use property.



Security Deposit (also Damage Deposit) – a sum of money paid in advance that
	is required by the owner or landlord for leasing property as security against
the 	tenant’s failure to fulfill the lease or security to cover damage to the
rental 	premises.



Vendor – provider of a service or product, including but not limited to
landlords.



Verification – documentation or collateral proof used to confirm the validity
of an applicant’s circumstances.



	Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 2116
(March 12, 	2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 	5973 (July 9, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 1566, 	1586 (February 25, 2011).
