                                  DC REGULATIONS

ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA (§ 29-7603)

7603.1. An applicant unit, whether an individual or family, shall be eligible
   to receive HPRP assistance if the applicant unit:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is currently homeless, because the applicant unit:
   
   
   
   (1)	Lacks a fixed, regular residence that provides safe housing, and lacks the
   financial means to acquire such a residence immediately, including victims of
   domestic violence who cannot remain in their present housing for safety
   reasons; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Has a primary nighttime residence that is:
   
   
   
   (A)	A supervised publicly or privately operated shelter or transitional
   housing facility designed to provide temporary living accommodations;
   
   
   
   (B)	A public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used as, a
   regular sleeping accommodation for human beings; or
   
   
   
   (C)	A hospital or other institution for the last one hundred and eighty (180)
   days or less, but who had, immediately prior to entry into the hospital or
   institution, a primary nighttime residence that meets the requirements of
   subparagraph (A) or (B) of this subparagraph; or
   
   (b)	Is housed but is at imminent risk of becoming homeless because the
   applicant:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Faces imminent loss of current housing;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Lacks the financial means to retain current housing or obtain alternate
   housing, due to:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A sudden and significant loss of income;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Significant financial barriers to housing, including significant medical debt,
   credit issues; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Other significant but temporary or situational financial crisis;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Lacks the support network to retain current housing or obtain alternate
   housing; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Has no other housing options identified.
   
   
   
   (c)	Is a resident of the District of Columbia as defined by section 503 of the
   District of Columbia Public Assistance Act of 1982, effective April 6, 1982
   (D.C. Law 4-101; D.C. Official Code § 4-205.03);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Is living in the District of Columbia at the time of application.  For
   purposes of this section, the applicant household shall be considered living
   in the District of Columbia if the household:
   
   
   
   (1)	Is homeless, physically present in the District, and not a resident of
   another state; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Is maintaining a home in the District as his or her principal residence.
   
   
   
   (e)	Has a combined current gross income, as determined in accordance with
   subsections 7603.10 and 7603.11, in the thirty (30) day period immediately
   preceding the date of application, at or below fifty percent (50 %) of the
   current Area Median Income (AMI) for the District of Columbia as determined
   annually by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
   (HUD).
   
   
   
   (f)	Demonstrates that the applicant household has no other available resources
   for retaining or obtaining stable housing, including resources available from
   family, friends, or a community resource or demonstrates the presence of
   additional challenges that are associated with an increased risk of
   homelessness, including mental or physical health issues, substance abuse,
   recent homelessness, child welfare involvement, recent institutional care, or
   other such challenges, and which the applicant can demonstrate may increase
   their risk of homelessness.  Household assets, as set forth in subsection
   7603.13, shall be taken into account in accordance with subsection 7603.12, in
   determining whether a household has other available financial resources
   sufficient to obtain or maintain housing under this section.
   
   
   
   (g)	Demonstrates that there is a reasonable expectation that the applicant
   will have the capacity to obtain or retain stable housing within an eighteen
   (18) month period or less, particularly for applicants seeking either rental
   assistance or payment of rental or utility arrearages.  Failure to demonstrate
   that the household will be reasonably likely to sustain stable housing
   following HPRP assistance may result in a denial of eligibility for some or
   all HPRP benefits.

   7603.2. Those HPRP applicants that have received Emergency Rental Assistance
   Program (ERAP) benefits within the last eighteen (18) months, whether applying
   for the same or a different financial benefit as that received under ERAP,
   shall be required to credibly demonstrate why the household believes it can
   meet the subsection 7603.1(g) eligibility requirement and not need additional
   assistance to obtain or retain housing.

   7603.3. An HPRP applicant or HPRP participant determined eligible under this
   section shall be subject to a re-evaluation and a re-determination of
   eligibility at least once every three (3) months for any HPRP rental
   assistance or case management lasting longer than three (3) months.

   7603.4. If two (2) unrelated individuals are joint parties to a lease, the
   HPRP Provider shall consider total household income to determine eligibility
   (i.e., either the whole household is eligible for assistance, or the whole
   household is not).

   7603.5. An applicant unit shall not be eligible for HPRP rental assistance if
   the household is receiving rental assistance for the same time period through
   another federal, state or local housing subsidy program.

   7603.6. An applicant unit shall not be eligible for HPRP utility assistance if
   the household is receiving a rental subsidy for the same time period through
   another federal, state, or local housing subsidy program that provides a
   utility allowance or the equivalent.

   7603.7. An adult applicant shall be denied HPRP assistance if the
   household’s housing crisis is the result of his or her refusal without
   “good cause” to accept employment or training for employment.

   7603.8. An applicant shall be considered to have refused employment or
   training if the applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Voluntarily quit employment or a bona fide training program within three
   (3) months prior to application; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Rejected an employment or a bona fide training program opportunity within
   the three (3) months prior to the application.

   7603.9. “Good Cause” reasons for voluntarily quitting a job or not
   participating in an employment training program include circumstances beyond
   the individual’s control, such as, but not limited to, the following, when
   the applicant can show, with reliable or credible information, that:
   
   
   
   (a)	Wages are below the minimum wage;
   
   
   
   (b)	The applicant is physically or mentally unable to perform the work or gain
   	access to the worksite;
   
   
   
   (c)	Working conditions violate health, safety, or worker’s compensation
   regulations and present a substantial risk to health or safety;
   
   
   
   (d)	The employer discriminated against the applicant based on race, color,
   religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, personal appearance,
   sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, familial status, family
   responsibilities, matriculation, political affiliation, genetic information,
   disability, source of income, status as a victim of an intrafamily offense, or
   place of residence or business in violation of D.C. Official Code §§
   2-1401.01, et seq. (D.C. Law 2-38, effective December 13, 1977);
   
   
   
   (e)	The requirements of the job would be contrary to his or her religious
   beliefs;
   
   
   
   (f)	There existed a household emergency (including domestic violence);
   
   
   
   (g)	The resignation is recognized by the employer as retirement;
   
   
   
   (h)	Child care, which is necessary for the adult applicant to accept work or
   training, is not available; or
   
   
   
   (i) 	The applicant could not maintain work or participate in a training
   program because it was necessary for the applicant to take care of a family
   member who is either ill or has a disability.

   7603.10. Current gross income for purposes of subsection 7603.1(e) shall
   include the following types of income, except that any income recently
   terminated shall not be included:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The full amount, before any payroll deduction, of wages and salaries,
   overtime pay, commissions, fees, tips, and bonuses, and other compensation for
   personal services;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The net income from operation of a business or profession. Expenditures
   for business expansion or amortization of capital indebtedness shall not be
   used as deductions in determining net income. An allowance for depreciation of
   assets used in a business or profession may be deducted, based on straight
   line depreciation, as provided in Internal Revenue Service regulations. Any
   withdrawal of cash or assets from the operation of a business or profession
   will be included in income, except to the extent the withdrawal is
   reimbursement of cash or assets invested in the operation by the family;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Interest, dividends, and other net income of any kind from real or
   personal property greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) per year.
   Expenditures for amortization of capital indebtedness shall be used as
   deduction in determining net income. An allowance for depreciation is
   permitted only as authorized in paragraph (b) of this subsection. Net income
   from assets will be included in Annual Income for the purposes of this title
   if net income from assets exceeds one thousand ($1,000). Notwithstanding this
   threshold, all assets with a value greater than fifteen thousand dollars
   ($15,000) must be reported annually. Regardless of the value of the assets,
   imputed income from assets will not be included in Annual Income.
   
   
   
   (d) 	The full amount of periodic payments received from social security,
   annuities, insurance policies, retirement funds, pensions, disability or death
   benefits and other similar types of periodic receipts, including a lump-sum
   payment for the delayed start of a periodic payment;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Payments in lieu of earnings such as unemployment and disability
   compensation, worker&#8217;s compensation and severance pay;
   
   
   
   (f) 	Welfare Assistance. If the welfare assistance payment includes an amount
   specifically designated for shelter and utilities that is subject to
   adjustment by the welfare assistance agency in accordance with the actual cost
   of shelter and utilities, the amount of welfare assistance income to be
   included as income shall consist of the following:
   
   
   
   (1) 	The amount of the allowance or grant exclusive of the amount specifically
   designated for shelter or utilities; plus
   
   
   
   (2) 	The maximum amount that the welfare assistance agency could in fact allow
   the family for shelter and utilities. If the family&#8217;s welfare assistance
   is ratably reduced from the standard of need by applying a percentage, the
   amount calculated shall be the amount resulting from one application of the
   percentage;
   
   
   
   (g)	Periodic and determinable allowances, such as alimony and child support
   payments, and regular contributions or gifts received from persons not
   residing in the dwelling;
   
   
   
   (h) 	All regular pay, special pay and allowances of a member of the Armed
   Forces (whether or not living in the dwelling) who is head of the family,
   spouse, or other person whose dependents are residing in the unit; and
   
   
   
   (i) 	Any earned income tax credit to the extent it exceeds income tax
   liability.

   7603.11. Current gross income does not include such temporary, nonrecurring or
   sporadic income as the following:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Casual, sporadic or irregular gifts;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Amounts that are specifically for or in reimbursement of the cost of
   medical expenses;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Lump-sum additions to family assets, such as inheritances, insurance
   payments (including payments under health and accident insurance and
   worker&#8217;s compensation), capital gains and settlement for personal or
   property losses;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Amounts of educational scholarships paid directly to the student or to
   the educational institution, and amounts paid by the government to a veteran,
   for use in meeting the costs of tuition, fees, books and equipment. Any
   amounts of such scholarships, or payments to veterans not used for the above
   purposes that are available for subsistence are to be included in income;
   
   
   
   (e) 	The hazardous duty pay to a family member in the Armed Forces away from
   home and exposed to hostile fire;
   
   
   
   (f) 	Income from employment of children (including foster children) under the
   age of eighteen (18) years;
   
   
   
   (g) 	Payments received for the care of foster children; and
   
   
   
   (h) 	Amounts specifically excluded by any other Federal statute from
   consideration as income for purposes of determining eligibility or benefits
   under a category of assistance programs that includes assistance under any
   program to which the exclusions of 24 CFR 5.609(c) apply, including:
   
   
   
   (1) 	The value of the allotment provided to an eligible household for coupons
   under the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. §§ 2011-2029);
   
   
   
   (2) 	Relocation payments made under title II of the Uniform Relocation
   Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. §§
   4621-4638);
   
   
   
   (3)	 Payments to volunteers under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973
   (42 U.S.C. §§ 5044(f), 5058);
   
   
   
   (4) 	Payments or allowances made under the Department of Health and Human
   Services&#8217; Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (42 U.S.C. §§
   8621-8629); and
   
   
   
   (5) 	Payments received from the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C.
   1552(b)).
   
   
   
   7603. 12	Household assets shall be taken into account in determining whether a
   household has other available financial resources sufficient to obtain or
   maintain housing under subsection 7603.1(f), as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	If a household’s current gross income, determined pursuant to subsection
   7603.1(e), plus the household’s combined assets, as set forth in subsection
   7603.6, exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the current Area Median Income (AMI)
   for the District of Columbia as determined annually by HUD, the household is
   not eligible for HPRP assistance;
   
   
   
   (b)	If thirty percent (30%) of a household’s monthly income, based on the
   current gross income determined in accordance with subsection 7603.1(e), plus
   one twelfth (1/12) of the household’s combined assets, as set forth in
   subsection 7603.6, exceeds the amount of the specific HPRP assistance sought
   (e.g., security deposit or rental assistance, or the respective cap, whichever
   is less) the household is not eligible for HPRP assistance; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If thirty percent (30%) of a household’s monthly income, based on the
   current gross income determined in accordance with subsection 7603.1(e), plus
   one twelfth (1/12) of the household’s combined assets, as set forth in
   subsection 7603.6, is less than the amount of the specific HPRP assistance
   sought (e.g., security deposit or rental assistance) the household shall only
   be eligible for HPRP assistance in the amount of the difference between the
   amount of the HPRP assistance sought or the respective HPRP cap, whichever is
   less.
   
   7603. 13	An asset is cash or items that could be converted to cash quickly and
   includes the real or personal property and investments that a household may
   possess, including assets that are owned by more than one person, but allow
   unrestricted access to the applicant.  Assets include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Amounts in checking and saving bank accounts.
   
   
   
   (b)	Stocks, bonds, savings certificates, money market funds, and other
   investment accounts.
   
   
   
   (c)	The cash value of trusts that may be withdrawn by the household.
   
   
   
   (d)	IRA, Keogh and similar retirement savings accounts, even when early
   withdrawal will result in a penalty.
   
   
   
   (e)	Lump sum receipts of cash received and accessible by household, such as
   inheritances, capital gains, lottery winnings, insurance settlements, and
   other claims.
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 2116
   (March 12, 	2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 	5973 (July 9, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 1566, 	1571 (February 25,
   2011).
