                                  DC REGULATIONS

CLEARANCE REQUIREMENTS AT CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY OF RENTAL UNITS (§ 20-3314)

3314.1 	Before a change in the occupancy of a residential rental unit and
   before the execution of a lease, where a prospective occupant household
   informs the property owner that the household includes a pregnant individual
   or a child under six (6) years of age, the owner of the unit shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provide the prospective tenant with a clearance report issued not more
   	than twelve (12) months before the change in occupancy;
   
   
   
   (b)	Give the prospective tenant an acknowledgment form issued by DDOE to 	sign
   and date as confirmation of receipt of the passing clearance report; 	and
   
   
   
   (c)	Retain a copy of the acknowledgement form for at least six (6) years,
   	which shall be readily accessible to DDOE during that period.

   3314.2. Upon written request by a tenant in a residential rental unit who is
   pregnant or has a child under six (6) years of age living at or regularly
   visiting the residence, the owner of said unit shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provide the occupant with a clearance report issued not more than twelve
   	(12) months before the date of the request or more than thirty (30) 	calendar
   days after receipt of the written request;
   
   
   
   (b)	Ask the tenant to sign and date an acknowledgement of receipt of the
   	clearance report; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Retain a copy of the acknowledgement form for at least six (6) years,
   	which shall be accessible to DDOE during that period.

   3314.3. The clearance report required by this section may be issued by a dust
   sampling technician, lead-based paint inspector, or risk assessor.

   3314.4. An owner may satisfy the clearance report requirements of this section
   by submitting to the tenant:
   
   
   
   (a)	A report from a risk assessor or lead-based paint inspector certifying
   that 	the unit is a lead-free unit, in accordance with §§ 3314.5, 3314.6 or
   	3314.7, as applicable; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Three (3) passing clearance reports issued at least twelve (12) months
   	apart from each other by a dust sampling technician, lead-based paint
   	inspector, or risk assessor, provided that the three (3) passing clearance
   	reports were all issued within the previous seven (7) years and the 	property
   owner or property manager is not currently, or was not during the 	previous
   five (5) years, subject to any housing code or any DDOE 	violation enforcement
   orders.

   3314.5. A single-family home shall qualify as a “lead-free unit” provided
   the owner documents that all representative interior and exterior painted
   surfaces have been tested by a lead-based paint inspector or risk assessor and
   do not contain lead-based paint.

   3314.6. To qualify as a “lead-free unit” in a multifamily property:
   
   
   
   (a)	The owner shall document that all representative interior unit painted
   	surfaces and all representative exterior painted surfaces that can
   	reasonably be considered as the unit’s exterior surfaces have been tested
   	by a lead-based paint inspector or risk assessor and do not contain lead
   	based paint.  For purposes of this paragraph, painted surfaces that can
   	reasonably be considered as the unit’s exterior surfaces include balcony
   	and terrace components, exterior window and door components, and any
   	accessible exterior wall surfaces that are part of the structure of the unit;
   
   
   
   (b)	The owner shall document that any interior floor surface located outside
   	the unit within twenty feet (20 ft.) of the front or rear door has been found
   	to be free of lead-contaminated dust, as confirmed by a dust sampling
   	technician, lead-based paint inspector, or risk assessor, after taking at
   least 	one (1) dust sample immediately outside the door and another dust
   sample 	for every ten feet (10 ft.) of floor surface from the door; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The multifamily property shall have an Operations and Maintenance Plan
   	that includes specific reference to a specialized cleaning process that
   	ensures approaches to lead-free units remain lead safe over time.

   3314.7. In the alternative, a unit may qualify as a “lead-free unit” in a
   multifamily property if an owner provides documentation that:
   
   
   
   (a)	A lead-based paint inspection of the property, performed in accordance
   	with the 1997 amendments to the HUD Guidelines for the Evaluation and
   	Control of Lead-Based Paint Hazards in Housing, or any more recent 	version
   thereof, has resulted in a determination by a certified risk assessor 	or
   lead-based paint inspector that the property is a lead-free property; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Lead-based paint that is present inside the unit has been enclosed so that
   a 	lead-based paint inspection of a unit, performed by a certified lead-based
   	paint inspector or risk assessor, does not detect any lead-based paint.

   3314.8. An owner whose unit is deemed to be a “lead-free unit” pursuant to
   § 3314.7(b) shall be exempt from the clearance requirements under § 3314,
   but shall remain subject to the disclosure requirements of the Acts and this
   chapter, and shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Disclose the presence of the enclosed lead-based paint whenever
   	appropriate under the Acts and this chapter; and
   
   
   
   (b)	As part of each such required disclosure, make available for review, upon
   	written request of a tenant, a current copy of the property’s Operations
   and 	Maintenance Plan, which shall contain a section that describes the
   process 	by which the owner intends to ensure that the lead-based paint
   remains 	enclosed over time.

   3314.9. For purposes of this section, a clearance report shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	The date that the clearance examination was conducted;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement by the individual who conducted the clearance examination
   	that the individual:
   
   
   
   (1)	Was granted unobstructed access to all painted areas in the unit;
   
   
   
   (2)	Did not see paint deterioration on any component or fixture on the
   	interior of the unit;
   
   
   
   (3)	Did not see paint deterioration on any component or fixture on the
   	exterior portion of a property that can reasonably be considered the
   	unit’s exterior surfaces in the case of multifamily property, in
   	conformance with § 3314.6(a); and
   
   
   
   (4)	Did not see paint deterioration on any component or fixture on the
   	exterior of any single-family property to which this section applies;
   
   
   
   (c)	Dust sampling results that pass the clearance requirements of this chapter
   	in accordance with the following dust sampling protocol:
   
   
   
   (1)	One (1) floor sample in each room, taken close to a door or another
   	potential likely source of lead dust; and
   
   
   
   (2)	One (1) window sill or well sample in each room containing a 	window;
   
   
   
   (d)	The analytical result for each environmental sample submitted for lab
   	analysis, including any blank or spike sample submitted;
   
   
   
   (e)	A floor plan of the unit that displays where each environmental sample
   	was taken;
   
   
   
   (f)	A chain of custody sheet with all fields completed, that lists each
   	environmental sample submitted to a lab for analysis, along with the time 	of
   day that the samples were collected; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The signature of the individual who conducted the clearance examination
   	and a copy of that individual’s current DDOE-issued certification card.

   3314.10. Each environmental sample taken pursuant to this section shall be
   submitted for analysis to an appropriately accredited lab.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10909 (July 26, 2013).
