                                  DC REGULATIONS

CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUALS PERFORMING LEAD-BASED PAINT HAZARD
IDENTIFICATION (§ 20-3306)

3306.1. Before an individual may perform a lead-based paint activity,
   clearance examination, or renovation in a dwelling unit or child-occupied
   facility built before 1978, an individual shall obtain the appropriate
   certification from DDOE and comply with this section, and with §§ 3307 or
   3308, as applicable.

   3306.2. Each applicant for certification shall submit to DDOE the following
   documents for use in consideration of the applicant’s qualification for
   certification:
   
   
   
   (a)	Official academic transcripts or diplomas, as evidence of meeting the
   	pertinent education requirements;
   
   
   
   (b)	Resumes, letters of reference, or documentation of work experience, as
   	evidence of meeting the pertinent work experience requirements; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Course completion certificates from lead-specific or other relevant
   training 	courses, issued by an accredited training program, as evidence of
   meeting 	the pertinent training requirements.

   3306.3. DDOE shall certify an applicant as a lead-based paint inspector, risk
   assessor, lead project designer, abatement worker or supervisor, dust sampling
   technician, or renovator if the application is complete and the applicant
   satisfies the requirements of this chapter and the Acts, successfully
   completes the pertinent course, and pays the appropriate certification fee to
   DDOE, in accordance with § 3322, within five (5) business days of receipt of
   the complete application package. Payment of a certification fee pursuant to
   § 3322 shall be waived if the applicant is applying as an employee of a
   District agency.

   3306.4. Except as provided in § 3321.04, to maintain certification in a
   particular discipline, a certified individual shall apply to and be
   re-certified by DDOE in that discipline, provided the individual has completed
   the appropriate training course, either refresher or initial as applicable,
   through an EPA- or DDOE- accredited training provider, or from another
   EPA-authorized, state-accredited training provider.

   3306.5. An individual seeking certification renewal shall submit the
   application materials and shall pay the appropriate certification renewal fee
   to DDOE, in accordance with § 3322, at least five (5) business days before
   their certification expires. Payment of such fee shall be waived if the
   applicant is an employee of a District agency.

   3306.6. Upon receiving DDOE certification, an individual conducting renovation
   or lead-based paint activities shall comply with the provisions of §§ 3302
   and 3304 and all other applicable laws.

   3306.7. If the individual seeking renewal of certification fails to complete
   the refresher course before the expiration date of their current
   certification, as required in § 3306.4, or within ninety (90) days after such
   expiration date, the individual shall re-take the initial course to become
   certified again.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10909 (July 26, 2013).
