                                  DC REGULATIONS

ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS AND COST REIMBURSEMENT (ยง 20-3320)

3320.1. If an owner, individual, firm, or business entity fails to comply with
   any document issued in accordance with the procedures set forth in ยง 3318 or
   violates any other provision of the Acts or this chapter, and such failure is
   likely to result in harm to either human health or the environment, DDOE may
   take any reasonable steps needed to prevent such harm from occurring and shall
   require reimbursement by said owner, individual, firm, or business entity for
   all reasonable costs as set forth on a DDOE invoice.

   3320.2. DDOE may enforce a violation of the Acts or this chapter, by issuing
   one or more of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Notice of Violation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Notice of Infraction;
   
   
   
   (c)	Cease and Desist Order;
   
   
   
   (d)	Order to Eliminate Lead-Based Paint Hazards;
   
   
   
   (e)	Notice of suspension, revocation, or denial in accordance with ยง 3321; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Another order necessary to protect human health or the environment, or to
   	implement this chapter.

   3320.3. Each notice and order shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Identify the violation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Specify the measures needed to correct the violation, including the time
   	for compliance;
   
   
   
   (c)	Order any other action necessary to protect the health and safety of the
   	occupants;
   
   
   
   (d)	Include an invoice charging the recipient of the notice or order for the
   	costs associated with the lead-based paint hazard evaluation that resulted
   	in the identification of lead-based paint hazards; and
   
   
   
   (e)	In the case of a Notice of Infraction, include an assessment of a fine for
   	each violation being cited.

   3320.4. An owner, individual, firm, or business entity may object to a notice
   or order by requesting a hearing within fifteen (15) calendar days of service.
    If service is by first class mail, a request for a hearing may be filed
   within twenty (20) days of service. If specific instructions are not on the
   notice or order, the owner, individual, firm, or entity shall file a written
   request for a hearing, including the grounds for the objection, in accordance
   with Rules of Practice and Procedure of the Office of Administrative Hearings
   set forth in Title 1 DCMR Chapter 28.

   3320.5. DDOE may issue a Cease and Desist Order to take effect immediately,
   requiring an owner, individual, firm, or business entity to correct a
   condition which is an imminent and substantial danger to the public health or
   restraining an owner, individual, firm, or business entity from engaging in
   any unauthorized activity that immediately and substantially endangers the
   public health. A Cease and Desist Order shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Describe the nature of the violation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Take effect at the time and on the date signed; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Identify the corrective actions to be taken or actions that must be
   	immediately suspended.

   3320.6. A hearing request does not stay the effective date of a Cease and
   Desist Order. If a hearing is not requested within the fifteen (15) day time
   period, the Order becomes final and remains in effect until DDOE determines
   that the corrective actions have alleviated the dangerous conditions.

   3320.7. In addition to imposing injunctive relief through a Cease and Desist
   Order under ยง 3320.5, DDOE may impose administrative sanctions for any
   infractions under this chapter or the Acts through the use of civil fines,
   penalties, and fees pursuant to D.C. Official Code, Title 2, Chapter 18.

   3320.8. The District may also initiate a civil action in the Superior Court of
   the District of Columbia to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Seek recovery of any corrective action costs incurred by the District
   	government caused by any violation of the Acts or this chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Impose civil penalties up to $25,000 for each day of each violation; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Secure a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, or other
   	relief necessary for enforcement of this chapter or the Acts.

   3320.9. Any owner, individual, training provider, firm or business entity that
   knowingly or willingly violates the provisions of the Acts or this chapter may
   also be subject to a criminal penalty of not more than $25,000 for each day of
   each violation, or imprisonment for not more than one (1) year, or both.

   3320.10. Any notice or order shall be served by personal service on an owner,
   individual, firm or business entity or his or her authorized agent in the same
   manner as a summons in a civil action, which includes first class mail, or by
   registered or certified mail to his or her last known address or place of
   residence.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10909 (July 26, 2013).
