                                  DC REGULATIONS

RISK REDUCTION USING INTERIM CONTROLS (§ 20-3315)

3315.1. Before any individual performs interim controls to eliminate
   lead-based paint hazards in the District of Columbia such person shall be
   trained in the lead-safe work practices set forth in § 3302.

   3315.2. A certificate of completion from an EPA- or DDOE-accredited training
   provider or from another EPA-authorized, state-accredited training provider
   shall serve as proof of receipt of the lead-safe work practices training
   required by these regulations. An individual shall provide proof of training
   in lead-safe work practices upon request by DDOE at the job site. A business
   entity shall ensure that its workers comply with these standards.

   3315.3. Documentation proving Certified Renovator status, or Abatement Worker
   or Abatement Supervisor certification status, shall satisfy the requirements
   of §§ 3315.1 and 3315.2, provided such documentation is from an EPA- or
   DDOE accredited training provider or from another EPA-authorized,
   state-accredited training provider.

   3315.4. Whenever non-abatement activities are conducted to address lead-based
   paint hazards pursuant to an Order to Eliminate Lead-Based Paint Hazards, a
   clearance examination shall be required:
   
   
   
   (a)	No sooner than one (1) hour after completion of such interim controls, but
   	no more than three (3) business days after such completion, and again
   	between thirty (30) and thirty-six (36) months, as specified by DDOE in 	the
   Order, after completion of the interim controls activities; or
   
   
   
   (b)	No sooner than one (1) hour after completion of such interim controls, but
   	no more than three (3) business days after such completion, and again 	within
   such timeframe that is specified by DDOE in the Order, which may 	include a
   requirement for multiple Clearance Reports  over time.

   3315.5. An initial clearance report pertaining to the elimination of
   lead-based paint hazards identified in an Order issued by DDOE shall be issued
   only by a risk assessor. Any subsequent clearance report may be issued by
   either a risk assessor, a lead-based paint inspector, or a dust sampling
   technician.

   3315.6. Each clearance report shall contain a copy of the current DDOE-issued
   certification card belonging to the individual that conducted the clearance
   examination and the date the clearance report was issued.

   3315.7. Notice to DDOE that a dust test will be performed as part of a
   clearance examination pursuant to § 3315.4 shall be provided by fax, in
   person, or via the DDOE website, on a DDOE-specified form, submitted to DDOE
   at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to conducting the dust test, or as soon
   as practicable, whichever is sooner.

   3315.8. A copy of each clearance report shall be submitted to DDOE by the
   property owner, within seven (7) business days of its issuance, either in PDF
   format by email, or by mail, a courier service, or in person.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10909 (July 26, 2013).
