                                  DC REGULATIONS

INVENTORY CONTROL (ยง 27-902)

902.1 	Each District agency is responsible for all personal property in its
   custody whether purchased from appropriations or other authorized funds, or
   acquired by transfer, donation, or other authorized means.  Each District
   agency shall ensure that the personal property is properly utilized and
   managed in the best interest of the District government.

   902.2. Each District agency director shall designate in writing to the CPDO:
   
   
   
   (a)	An administrative employee who shall serve as an Accountable Property
   Officer (APO); and
   
   
   
   (b)	An administrative employee who shall serve as an alternate APO.

   902.3. The APO shall be responsible for:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Maintaining records that reflect accountability of property assigned to the
   	agency;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Ensuring the proper utilization and care of all property assigned to the
   	agency;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Reconciling physical inventories with property records and inventory
   	databases; and
   
   
   
   (d) 	Approving transfers of, accounting for, and reporting dispositions of
   agency personal property to SPD by utilizing the property disposal action
   form.

   902.4. The D.C. SASP and the SPD shall maintain a shared electronic inventory
   control system to monitor all federal and District surplus personal property
   in their possession.  The system shall contain the following information for
   each item of surplus personal property:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The date of receipt of property;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The agency from which the property was received;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A description of the property, including quantity and condition;
   
   
   
   (d)	A photograph of the property; and
   
   
   
   		(e)	The estimated value of the property.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 9345 (June 21, 2013).
