                                  DC REGULATIONS

LIMITATIONS ON JOINT MARKETING, SPACE, AND SALES FOR CORE SERVICE AFFILIATES (§
15-3902)

3902.1. Joint promotions, marketing, and advertising between an energy utility
   and its core service affiliate(s) are prohibited.  Joint marketing shall
   include the sharing of billing materials.  The energy utility may allow a core
   service affiliate access to space on its billing envelope or the ability to
   include marketing information inside the billing envelope only under the
   circumstance of a general promotion of supplier choice where space is made
   available to all competitors of the core affiliate under the same terms and
   conditions.
   
   
   
   3902.2 	Joint sales calls shall not be initiated either by an energy utility
   or its core service affiliate(s).  However, when a customer requests a joint
   sales call, a joint sales call may be conducted.  If a customer enters into a
   contract with a core service affiliate, a joint call relating to that contract
   may be conducted.
   
   
   
   3902.3 	An energy utility shall not provide sales leads to its core service
   affiliate(s).
   
   
   
   3902.4  	Marketing/advertising material used by the core service affiliate
   claiming an association with the energy utility shall include a disclaimer
   that:
   
   
   
   	(a)	The affiliate supplier is not the same company as the energy 	company,
   whose name or logo may be at least partially used;
   
   
   
   	(b)	The prices and services of the affiliate supplier are not set by the
   	Commission; and
   
   
   
   	(c)	The customer is not required to buy energy or other products and
   	services from the affiliate supplier in order to receive the same quality
   	service from the energy utility.

   3902.5. An energy utility and a core service affiliate(s) shall operate from
   physically separate locations to avoid the inadvertent sharing of information.
    The core service affiliate(s) shall not share office space owned or used by
   the energy utility.

   3902.6. An energy utility shall not ask a customer for consent to provide the
   customer’s name or information to its core service affiliates licensed in
   the District of Columbia.  An energy utility shall refrain from speaking to
   its customers for, or on behalf of, its core service affiliates.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 1109, 1111 (February
   4, 2011).
