                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 15-3999)

3999.1. For the purposes of this chapter:
   
   
   
   “Affiliate” means a person who directly or indirectly, or through one or
   more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control
   with, or has directly or indirectly, any economic interest in another person.
   
   “Annual Log” means a log maintained by an energy utility to track
   information regarding a request for service from an energy supplier.  The
   annual log shall include the following: (1) name of the supplier requesting
   service; (2) description of the type of service being requested; (3) date of
   request; (4) status of request (5) date of completion of the requested
   service; (6) energy utility&#8217;s affiliation with the energy supplier; and
   (7) contact information for supplier requesting service.
   
   “Asset” means tangible and intangible property of an energy utility
   included in its rate base.
   
   
   
   “Asymmetric pricing” means pricing, including, but not limited to, energy
   utility assets, services and things of value transferred to an affiliate
   recorded on the utility’s books at the greater of book value or market
   value, with pricing of the same items transferred from the affiliate to the
   energy utility recorded on the utility’s books at the lesser of book cost or
   market value.
   
   “CAM” or “Cost Allocation Manual” means the manual that explains how
   the energy utility will allocate and account for shared services between the
   regulated utility and its affiliates.
   
   “Core service” means a retail gas or electric energy service, including
   the sale and delivery of electricity or natural gas, provided to the public in
   the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   “Core service affiliate” means an affiliate that provides retail gas or
   electric energy service, including the sale and delivery of electricity or
   natural gas, to the public in the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   “Customer” means a purchaser of natural gas or electricity for end use in
   the District of Columbia.  The term excludes an occupant of a building where
   the owner, lessee, or manager manages the internal distribution system serving
   the building and supplies natural gas solely to occupants of the building for
   use by the occupants.
   
   “Emergency” means any of the following, or similar, situations which
   require any action contrary to this Code of Conduct:  (a) a natural disaster,
   including but not limited to a hurricane, tornado, snow storm, earthquake,
   flood, or land slide that impacts utility service; or (b) any national or
   District of Columbia declared state of emergency or condition resulting in
   federal, or District government closing its respective offices; or (c) an
   abnormal system condition requiring manual or automatic action to maintain
   system frequency, or to prevent loss of firm load, equipment damage,
   disconnection of system elements that could adversely affect utility service
   or the reliability of the utility’s electric system or natural gas system or
   the safety of persons or property; or (d) acts of others such as riots,
   sabotage, acts of terrorism, insurrections, nationalization or wars, which
   adversely affect utility service or the reliability of the utility’s
   electric system or natural gas system.
   
   “Energy supplier” means a licensed person including an aggregator, broker,
   or marketer, who generates energy (natural gas or electricity); sells energy
   (natural gas or electricity); or purchases, brokers, arranges or markets
   energy (natural gas or electricity) for sale to customers in the District of
   Columbia.  The term excludes the following: (A) building owners, lessees, or
   managers who manage the internal distribution system serving such building and
   who supply energy (natural gas or electricity) solely to the occupants of the
   building for use by occupants; (B) (I) any person who purchases (natural gas
   or electricity) for its own use or its subsidiaries or affiliates; or (II) any
   apartment building or office building manager who aggregates energy (natural
   gas or electricity) service requirements for his or her buildings, and who
   does not: (a) take title to the energy (natural gas or electricity); (b)
   market energy (natural gas or electricity) services to the
   individually-metered tenants for his or her building; or (c) engage in the
   resale of energy (natural gas or electricity) services to others; (C) property
   owners who supply small amounts of power, at  cost, as an accommodation to
   lessors or licensees of the property; and (D) a consolidator.
   
   “Energy utility” means a natural gas corporation or electric company under
   the jurisdiction of the Commission whose rates, charges, terms and conditions,
   and the quality of services it provides to customers are regulated by the
   Commission.
   
   “Limited Engagement Review” means an independent accountant’s
   examination of books and records to determine compliance with all of the
   sections of this Code of Conduct.
   
   
   
   “Non-core service” means any service or activity that is not a retail gas
   or electric energy service, including the sale and delivery of electricity or
   natural gas, provided to the public in the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   “Non-core service affiliate” means an affiliate that does not provide any
   service or activity that is a retail gas or electric energy service, including
   the sale and delivery of electricity or natural gas to the public in the
   District of Columbia.
   
   “Person” means every individual, corporation, company, association,
   joint-stock company, firm, partnership, or other entity.
   
   
   
   “Standard offer service” means electricity supply made available to: (1)
   customers who contract for electricity with an electricity supplier, but who
   fail to receive delivery of electricity under such contracts; (2) customers
   who cannot arrange to purchase electricity from an electricity supplier; and
   (3) customers who do not choose an electricity supplier.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 1109, 1115 (February
   4, 2011).
