                                  DC REGULATIONS

DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION (§ 15-3903)

3903.1. An energy utility shall not disclose any customer-specific information
   obtained in connection with the provision of regulated utility services except
   upon written consent of the utility customer.  The consent form signed by the
   utility customer shall state the purpose of the disclosure.

   3903.2. Notwithstanding the limitations in subsection 3903.1,
   customer-specific information may be disclosed for lawful bill collection or
   credit reporting purposes, pursuant to a subpoena or request by a duly
   authorized law enforcement official, or pursuant to a lawful request
   authorized by local or federal law.

   3903.3. Any information provided by an energy utility to a core service
   affiliate(s) with respect to its electric or gas system, the marketing or sale
   of energy to customers or potential customers, or the delivery of energy to or
   on its system, shall be contemporaneously disclosed to all non-affiliated
   energy suppliers or potential non-affiliated energy suppliers on its system. 
   Disclosure of such information must be published on the energy utility’s
   electronic bulletin board or equivalent mechanism used to communicate with
   licensed energy providers.

   3903.4. Notwithstanding the limitations in subsection 3903.3 above, an energy
   utility may disclose the following information without making the disclosure
   publicly available:
   
   
   
   	(a) 	Information to an energy supplier, whether affiliated or
   non-	affiliated, disclosed in the administration of a contract to supply
   	Standard Offer Service;
   
   
   
   	(b) 	Information to an energy supplier, whether affiliated or
   non-	affiliated, concerning the energy supplier&#8217;s customer that
   is	necessary for 	the energy supplier to bill or provide services to its
   customers; and
   
   
   
   	(c) 	Information disclosed to the energy utility’s affiliate(s) required
   for 	the affiliate(s) to comply with federal and state laws and 	regulations,
   	including those relating to financial reporting and corporate governance.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 1109, 1112 (February
   4, 2011).
