                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROHIBITION OF FAVORABLE TREATMENT FOR AFFILIATES (§ 15-3901)

3901.1. Neither an energy utility nor a core service affiliate(s) shall
   represent that any advantage accrues to a customer or others in the use of the
   energy utility’s services as a result of that customer or others dealing
   with the core service affiliate(s).

   3901.2. Neither an energy utility nor a core service affiliate(s) shall
   represent that the affiliation allows the core service affiliate(s) to provide
   a service superior to that available from other licensed energy suppliers.

   3901.3. No energy utility shall promote the services of a core service
   affiliate or disparage the services of a competitor of a core service
   affiliate.

   3901.4. An energy utility shall not condition or tie the provision of
   regulated utility services to:
   
   
   
   	(a) 	The purchase, lease, or use of any other goods or services offered 	by
   the 	energy utility or its affiliates; or
   
   
   
   	(b) 	The direct or indirect commitment not to deal with any competing 	energy
   	supplier.

   3901.5. An energy utility shall not give preferential treatment to an
   affiliate(s) or customers of the affiliate(s) in providing regulated services.
    With respect to regulated utility services, the energy utility shall treat
   all similarly situated energy suppliers and their customers in the same manner
   without regard to whether the supplier is a core service affiliate.

   3901.6. An energy utility shall process all requests for service by any
   similarly situated energy supplier in the same manner and within the same
   period of time as it processes requests for service from a core service
   affiliate(s). An energy utility shall keep an annual log of the length of time
   it takes the energy utility to process each request for service.

   3901.7. An energy utility shall provide the same information about its
   distribution and transmission services contemporaneously to all energy
   suppliers in a manner that does not favor a core service affiliate(s) in
   either the type or manner of access to such information.

   3901.8. An energy utility shall apply all the terms and conditions of its
   tariff related to delivery of energy services to similarly situated providers
   in the same manner, without regard to whether the supplier is a core service
   affiliate.

   3901.9. An energy utility shall offer the same discounts, rebates, fee
   waivers, or penalty waivers to all similarly situated non-affiliated suppliers
   or customers that it may offer to its core service affiliate or customers of
   its affiliate.  The energy utility shall make such contemporaneous offers,
   including an appropriate posting on the energy utility’s electronic bulletin
   board, or by some other appropriate means (e.g., Internet website).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 1109, 1110 (February
   4, 2011).
