                                  DC REGULATIONS

COST ALLOCATION AND ACCOUNTING (§ 15-3904)

3904.1 	Within four (4) months of the close of the energy utility’s fiscal
   year, an energy utility must file annually a Cost Allocation Manual
   (“CAM”) with the Commission explaining how it will allocate and account
   for shared services between the energy utility and any affiliate.

   3904.2. The CAM must include the following:
   
   
   
   	(a) 	An explanation of the corporate organization;
   
   
   
   	(b) 	A description of each corporate entity, including location, list of
   	officers and the statement of the business of each entity;
   
   
   
   (c)	A listing of each type of cost which is allocated or charged direct
   between entities and the factor(s) which is (are) used in the allocation;
   
   
   
   	(d)	An explanation and calculation of each of the cost allocation factors
   	used for transfers between and among corporate entities; and
   
   
   
   	(e)	A listing of the total amount of each cost allocated or charged direct
   	between or among corporate entities during the annual period.

   3904.3. When changes occur to the CAM prior to the next annual filing period,
   the energy utility must file amendment(s) to the CAM within thirty (30) days
   from the effective date of the change.

   3904.4. An affiliate and an energy utility must maintain such separate books
   and records as required by the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005
   (“PUHCA 2005”) and the Commission and, upon written request by the
   Commission, provide timely access to the books and records.
   
   
   
   3904.5 	The energy utility and all affiliates to or from which assets included
   in rate base have been transferred by or to the energy utility and all
   affiliates that provide services to, or share costs with, the energy utility
   through any allocation method, must make available for inspection and review
   by the Commission books relating to the foregoing pursuant to PUHCA 2005 so
   that the Commission may determine compliance with the Code of Conduct.  Books
   shall be maintained for inspection and review for at least five (5) calendar
   years.

   3904.6. Biennially, the energy utility shall cause a limited engagement report
   to be prepared by an independent accountant of its books and the books of any
   affiliate that has entered into a transaction with the energy utility within
   the period of the limited engagement review to ensure compliance with the
   Commission’s Code of Conduct.  The energy utility shall select an
   independent accountant and shall seek approval by the Commission of the
   selection at least sixty (60) days prior to the beginning of the limited
   engagement review.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 1109, 1113 (February
   4, 2011).
