                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPLAINT PROCEDURE (ยง 7-509)

509.1. Complaints may be brought by an individual or organization including,
   but not limited to, program participants, employers, contractors, staff of the
   employer, applicants for participation, labor unions, and community based
   organizations.

   509.2. With the exception of complaints alleging fraud, forgery, or other
   criminal activity, the filing of a complaint shall be made within ten (10)
   days of the alleged occurrence.

   509.3. Participants shall be provided, upon enrollment into the Out-of-School
   Year-Round Employment Program, a written description of the complaint
   procedures, including notification of their right to file a complaint and
   instructions on how to file.

   509.4. All complaints shall be in writing.

   509.5. The complaint resolution procedure shall include provision for the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Opportunity for informal resolution of the complaint;
   
   
   
   (b)	Opportunity for informal resolution of the complaint;
   
   
   
   (c)	Written notification of an opportunity for a hearing when an informal
   resolution has not been accomplished. This notice shall state the procedures
   for requesting a hearing and shall describe the elements in the hearing
   procedures, including those set forth in paragraph (f) of this subsection;
   
   
   
   (d)	Opportunity to amend the complaint prior to a hearing;
   
   
   
   (e)	Opportunity for a hearing within twenty (20) days of filing the complaint;
   and
   
   
   
   (f)	A final written decision concerning the complaint which shall be made
   within thirty (30) days of the filing of the complaint and shall include the
   following;
   
   
   
   (1)	The reason(s) for the decision; and
   
   
   
   (2)	A statement that the procedures delineated in this section have been
   followed.

   509.6. A hearing, when requested, shall be provided within twenty (20) days
   after filing a complaint. The hearing procedures shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Written notice of the hearing, a description of the manner in which it
   will be conducted, and the issue to be decided;
   
   
   
   (b)	Opportunity to withdraw the request for hearing in writing before the
   hearing;
   
   
   
   (c)	Opportunity to request rescheduling for good cause;
   
   
   
   (d)	Opportunity to be accompanied by a representative;
   
   
   
   (e)	Opportunity to bring witnesses and documentary evidence;
   
   
   
   (f)	Opportunity to have relevant documents produced by the Out-of-School
   Year-Round Employment Program or its components;
   
   
   
   (g)	Opportunity to question witnesses;
   
   
   
   (h)	The right to an impartial hearing officer selected by the Director; and
   
   
   
   (i)	A written decision from the hearing officer, which shall include a summary
   of facts, the reason(s) for the decision, and a statement of remedies to be
   applied.

   509.7. Appeals from decisions of the Hearing Officer may be filed with the
   Director.

   509.8. Whenever the Director receives a request for an investigation or a
   complaint, it shall be investigated if it alleges that any person,
   participant, employer or contractor is failing to comply with the requirements
   of the Act, a derivative agreement, these regulations, or appropriate local or
   federal laws and regulations.

   509.9. The investigation shall be completed and conclusion effected within
   twenty (20) days after filing, or within the additional time, not to exceed
   twenty (20) days, as the Director may allow.

   509.10. No extension shall relieve the Hearing or Investigation Officer from
   making his or her final determination within thirty (30) days after the filing
   of a complaint or request for investigation.

   509.11. If the Director, Hearing, or Investigation Officer determines that a
   complaint, an investigation or testimony involves criminal activity which may
   violate the laws of the District of Columbia, the United States, or other
   jurisdiction, this shall be communicated directly to the appropriate law
   enforcement agency.

   509.12. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Director from requiring
   that a system of grievance processing and just adjudication of complaints be
   implemented by employers for the use of participating youth.

   509.13. Nothing in this section shall prohibit a participating youth from
   filing a complaint or request for investigations and hearings. Complaints
   shall be maintained in the Office of the Director.

   509.14. Records of all investigations, hearings, complaints, and requests for
   investigation shall be maintained in the Office of the Director.
