                                  DC REGULATIONS

JOBS ELIGIBLE FOR INCENTIVES (ยง 7-503)

503.1. Jobs to be approved for incentives shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provide a prevailing entrance wage for the job being performed, but shall
   not be subsidized at a rate which exceeds the minimum wage rate specified in
   ยง6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide for the development of job skills which lead to future economic
   self sufficiency.

   503.2. Employment opportunities under the program may be with the Government
   of the District of Columbia or in the private sector on a fully funded,
   partially, or matchfunded basis through grants to or contracts with non-profit
   or profitmaking organizations, associations, institutions or businesses.

   503.3. Participant wage rates shall be in conformity with all federal and
   local laws, and in no event shall the wage rate be less than the higher of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The minimum wage rate specified in ยง6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards
   Act: and
   
   
   
   (b)	The minimum wage rates prescribed by applicable state or District laws and
   regulations.

   503.4. In order to ensure meaningful jobs, the Director shall approve only
   jobs which in the Director&#8217;s judgement will provide marketable job
   skills and enhance the goals of the Out-of-School Year-Round Employment
   Program.

   503.5. The Director may coordinate with various business and community
   organizations to solicit employer participation in identifying eligible jobs
   with youth employment opportunities. Emphasis shall be placed on utilizing
   organizations with strong associations with minority businesses.

   503.6. The Director may enter into formal arrangements or agreements with an
   organization to aid in the search for suitable employment opportunities.

   503.7. Employers shall be reimbursed at the agreed-upon subsidized wage level
   and fringe benefits exclusive of overtime, premium pay or other labor costs
   for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks of subsidized employment.

   503.8. Employers shall provide for any periodic or other wage increases above
   the subsidization level from their own funds unless specific authorization is
   obtained in writing from the Director.

   503.9. The Director may approve jobs individually or as a block of jobs, if
   the multiple jobs are associated with a distinct project, and if in his or her
   judgement adequate funds are available for supplies and materials to complete
   the project.

   503.10. Participating employers under the Act shall comply with the following
   laws:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Human Rights Law of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Equal Pay Act;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Rehabilitation Act;
   
   
   
   (e)	Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Any other applicable non-discrimination laws.
