                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 7-599)

599.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
   ascribed:
   
   
   
   Act &#8211; the authorizing legislation for the Youth Employment Act of 1979,
   (D.C. Law 3-46).
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the Department of Employment Services, or the
   Director&#8217;s designee, contracting officer, representative or contractual
   agents.
   
   
   
   Economically Disadvantaged &#8211; a person who is one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A member of a family which receives public assistance;
   
   
   
   (b)	A member of a family whose income during the previous six (6) months on an
   annualized basis was such that:
   
   
   
   (1)	The family would have qualified for public assistance if it had applied
   for assistance; or
   
   
   
   (2)	It does not exceed the poverty level; or.
   
   
   
   (3)	It does not exceed seventy percent (70%) of the lower living standard
   income level.
   
   
   
   (c)	A foster child on whose behalf Federal Government payments are made; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A person whose status presents significant barriers to employment, such as
   the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A client of a sheltered workshop;
   
   
   
   (2)	A handicapped individual; or
   
   
   
   (3)	A person residing in an institution or facility providing twenty-four (24)
   hour support such as a prison, a hospital or community care facility or
   similar institution.
   
   
   
   Entry Level &#8211; the lowest position in any promotional line, as defined
   locally by personnel regulations, past practices, and collective bargaining
   agreements.
   
   
   
   Family &#8211; one (1) or more persons living in a single residence who are
   related to each other by blood, marriage, or adoption. A step-child or
   step-parent shall be considered to be related by marriage.
   
   
   
   Handicapped Individual &#8211; any person who has a physical or mental
   disability which constitutes a substantial barrier to employment and who can
   benefit from services under this program.
   
   
   
   Participant &#8211; an individual who is:
   
   
   
   (a)	Declared eligible upon intake; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Receiving employment and training funded under the Act following
   enrollment.
   
   
   
   Participating Employers &#8211; both profitmaking and non-profitmaking
   persons, associations, partnerships, and corporations, as well as the District
   Government and other public agencies which enter into formal agreements with
   the Director for participation in the Out-of-School, Year-Round Employment
   Program (OSYREP).
   
   
   
   Public Assistance &#8211; Federal or District government cash payment for
   which eligibility is determined by a need or income test.
   
   
   
   Resident &#8211; a person who has a permanent dwelling or home in the District
   of Columbia. A District resident shall also include those persons who are
   permanent resident aliens, or aliens who have been permitted to accept
   permanent employment in the United States by the U.S. Immigration and
   Naturalization Service.
   
   
   
   Unsubsidized Employment &#8211; employment secured for or by a participant
   which is not subsidized by funds from the Act.
