                                  DC REGULATIONS

SOLICITING[COLON] GENERAL PROVISIONS (§ 24-573)

573.1. No person shall solicit any person from a street, sidewalk, or other
   public space, or in any way interfere with the free passage of any person
   along any street, sidewalk, or other public space, for the purpose of inducing
   that person to do any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Buy any merchandise, food, or service;
   
   
   
   (b)	Patronize any hotel, motel, inn, or boarding house; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Patronize any place of entertainment or amusement.

   573.2. No person shall solicit any other person within or on the grounds of
   any railroad or bus station or depot, or on public space in the District, for
   the purpose of securing a passenger or passengers for transportation for hire,
   unless properly licensed and permitted to do so by the Mayor.

   573.3. No person shall, on any public highway in the District, solicit
   employment to guard, watch, wash, clean, repair, or paint, any automobile or
   other vehicle, except as provided for in Title 18 of the DCMR.

   573.4. No person shall remain in front of or enter any store or vending
   business where goods are sold at retail for the purpose of enticing away or in
   any manner interfering with any person who may be in front of or who may have
   entered the store or vending business for the purpose of buying.

   573.5. Unless issued a valid Class D Vending Business License or engaged in a
   transaction with a Class D Vending Business Licensed vendor, no person shall
   sell or offer to sell tickets from the sidewalks, streets, or public spaces
   anywhere in the District for any sightseeing bus tours of any kind.

   573.6. Class D Vendors may only sell tickets in areas designated for that
   specific purpose, pursuant to § 573.7.

   573.7. Class D license holders who provide sightseeing bus services are
   authorized to vend from public space within ten feet (10 ft.) of a sign
   designating a stop of the sightseeing bus for which the person is selling
   tickets; provided, that the sign has been permitted and approved by the DDOT
   Director pursuant to § 3306 of Chapter 33 of Title 24 of the DCMR. No
   structure or fixture, including “A” frame signs, podiums, kiosks, or any
   other material, whether temporary or permanent, shall be placed in public
   space.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
