                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMPLOYEES OF LICENSED VENDORS (§ 24-564)

564.1. No individual shall work at a vending business unless the individual is
   the licensed vendor of the vending business or is an employee of the vendor
   holding a valid Vendor Employee Identification Badge.

   564.2. The employing vendor shall follow all applicable District and federal
   employment laws and regulations.

   564.3. An employee of a vendor may operate the vendor’s Class A or Class D
   vending business without the vendor being present; provided, that the employee
   holds a valid:
   
   
   
   (a)	Food Protection Manager Certificate issued by the Conference of Food
   	Protection Standards for Accreditation of Food Protection Manager
   	Certification Programs in accordance with § 203 of Subtitle A (Food and
   	Food Operations) of Title 25 of the DCMR; and
   
   
   
   (b)	DOH-issued a Certified Food Protection Manager Identification Card in
   	accordance with § 203 of Subtitle A (Food and Food Operations) of Title 	25
   of the DCMR.

   564.4. No individual may act as an employee of a vendor unless that individual
   holds a valid Vendor Employee Identification Badge issued by the DCRA
   Director.

   564.5. An individual shall apply for a Vendor Employee Identification Badge by
   submitting an application to the DCRA Director, on a form prescribed by the
   DCRA Director, which shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address, photograph, and telephone number of the individual;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name and license number of the vendor for whom the individual will
   	act as an employee;
   
   
   
   (c)	The signature of the individual;
   
   
   
   (d)	The notarized signature of the vendor;
   
   
   
   (e)	The application fee, which shall be fifty-five dollars ($55); and
   
   
   
   (f)	Any additional information or documentation required by the DCRA
   	Director.

   564.6. The Vendor Employee Identification Badge shall include the name of the
   employee of the vendor, a badge number, the name of the licensed vendor, and
   the Vending Business License number of the vendor.

   564.7. An employee shall conspicuously wear his or her Vendor Employee
   Identification Badge when the employee is operating the vendor’s vending
   business.

   564.8. An individual may represent more than one (1) licensed vendor;
   provided, that the individual:
   
   
   
   (a)	Has a Vendor Employee Identification Badge for each licensed vendor 	that
   employs the individual; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Displays the Vendor Employee Identification Badge for the respective
   	licensed vendor while working at that vendor’s vending business.

   564.9. A licensed vendor shall be held responsible for the actions of his or
   her employees and independent contractors, where such actions are related to
   the operation of the vending business and, either singularly or in
   combination, the Vending Business License, Vending Site Permit, Vendor
   Employee Identification Badge, and health inspection certificate of the vendor
   may be suspended or revoked based on those actions.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
