                                  DC REGULATIONS

ASSIGNMENT OF MOBILE ROADWAY VENDING LOCATIONS (§ 24-540)

540.1. MRV location permits for each MRV vehicle shall initially be determined
   by a monthly lottery with each lottery assigning a MRV vehicle to a specific
   MRV location and for a specific day of the month.

   540.2. The DCRA Director shall establish the format of the MRV location permit
   lottery program and may modify the format, as necessary, to improve efficiency
   or to incorporate technological advancements.

   540.3. The lottery shall be conducted monthly, with MRV locations allocated to
   MRV vehicles by the following days of the week:
   
   
   
   (a)	Monday;
   
   
   
   (b)	Tuesday;
   
   
   
   (c)	Wednesday;
   
   
   
   (d)	Thursday; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Friday.

   540.4. A MRV vehicle shall register for the MRV location permit lottery by the
   MRV vehicle’s vehicle registration number and Vending Business license
   number. No vendors will be eligible for MRV location permit lottery in months
   when their Vending Business license will expire without renewal.

   540.5. There shall be only one (1) MRV location permit lottery entry per MRV
   vehicle.

   540.6. Prior to each monthly lottery, MRV vendors shall have the option to
   list the available MRV locations in order of their preference; this
   information will serve as the MRV vendor’s lottery preference request.

   540.7. In addition to the standard MRV location permit lottery entry, the DCRA
   Director may create a lottery program for MRV vehicles to vend from multiple
   established MRV locations for specific hours on specific days of the week
   during each month.

   540.8. The non-refundable lottery application fee for the monthly MRV location
   permit lottery shall be $25 per MRV vehicle and shall be paid prior to a MRV
   vehicle submitting monthly MRV location preferences.

   540.9. The monthly MRV location permit fee shall be $150 per MRV vehicle and
   shall be paid in full prior to the MRV vehicle being authorized to vend from
   the designated MRV location assigned via the monthly lottery.

   540.10. A MRV vendor not participating in the monthly MRV location permit
   program may vend from any legal parking space, in compliance with its Vending
   Site Permit and §§ 534 and 535.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
