                                  DC REGULATIONS

DISPLAY OF LICENSES, PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES (§ 24-562)

562.1. A vendor shall conspicuously display on the vendor’s vending vehicle,
   vending cart, or vending stand, or public market, as required, in Chapter 37,
   Subtitle A of Title 25 of the DCMR,  his or her:
   
   
   
   (a)	Vending Business License;
   
   
   
   (b)	Vending Site Permit;
   
   
   
   (c)	Health inspection certificate;
   
   
   
   (d)	Food Protection Manager Certificate;
   
   
   
   (e)	DCRA-issued vendor identification card;
   
   
   
   (f)	DOH-issued certified food protection manager identification card; and
   
   
   
   (g)	A propane or open flame permit, if the vendor uses propane or open 	flames
   in his or her operations.

   562.2. The items required by § 562.1 shall be considered to be properly
   displayed when they are firmly attached to the vending vehicle or stand and
   are clearly visible to the public.

   562.3. No person shall alter, mutilate, forge, or illegally display any
   license, permit, or other certificate of authority issued pursuant to this
   chapter.

   562.4. If a Vending Business License, Vending Site Permit, or health
   inspection certificate is displayed by a vendor or on a vending vehicle,
   vending cart, or vending stand other than that of the vendor, vending vehicle,
   vending stand, or vending cart for which the Vending Business License, Vending
   Site Permit, or health inspection certificate was issued, the DCRA Director or
   MPD may summarily impound or immobilize the vending vehicle, vending stand, or
   vending cart on which the Vending Business License, Vending Site Permit, or
   health inspection certificate is unlawfully displayed.

   562.5. If a summary impounding or immobilization occurs pursuant to § 562.4,
   the DCRA Director or MPD shall release the impounded or immobilized vending
   vehicle, vending stand, or vending cart to the vendor upon the payment of a
   fine in an amount established by the DCRA Director.

   562.6. Failure to display any required certificates of authority, or to
   provide those certificates to an authorized District government
   representative,  may result in summary suspension of a vendor’s Vending
   Business License or Vending Site Permit and the impounding or immobilizing of
   the vending vehicle, vending stand, or vending cart. The vendor’s license or
   site permit shall be returned to the licensee upon the proper display or
   provision of the required certificates of authority.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
