                                  DC REGULATIONS

PUBLIC MARKETS (§ 24-541)

541.1. No person shall operate or vend from a public market unless the public
   or private market is located on:
   
   
   
   (a)	Public space approved by the DDOT Director;
   
   
   
   (b)	Private space; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A combination of both public space approved by the DDOT Director and
   	private space.

   541.2. No person shall manage a public market on public or private space
   without holding a Class C Vending Business License.

   541.3. No Class C Vending Business License holder shall operate a public
   market on public space without first obtaining a Public Space Permit from the
   DDOT Director.

   541.4. Each person operating at a public market managed by the holder of a
   Class C Vending Business License on public or private space shall be subject
   to all applicable license and health laws and regulations.

   541.5. No Class C Vending Business License holder shall operate a public
   market on public or private space without obtaining a DOH health inspection
   certificate and food safety compliance inspection in accordance with Subtitle
   A of Title 25 of the DCMR.

   541.6. Each public market operated by the holder of a Class C Vending Business
   License that is operating on private space shall obtain a certificate of
   occupancy from the DCRA Director.

   541.7. A person who is authorized by the Class C Vending Business License
   holder to operate at a public market may operate without a Vending Business
   License or Vending Site Permit; provided, that the person shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the registration
   	of the person’s business with the Office of Tax and Revenue and DCRA; 	and
   
   
   
   (b)	Comply with any standards imposed by DOH or other relevant agencies.

   541.8. A Class C Vending Business License holder shall maintain records of all
   persons operating at each public market managed by the licensee.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
