                                  DC REGULATIONS

ASSIGNMENT OF STATIONARY ROADWAY VENDING LOCATIONS (ยง 24-539)

539.1. For  a period of one (1) year from the publication in the District of
   Columbia Register of a notice of final rulemaking adopting this chapter, MPD
   shall oversee the lottery for stationary roadway Vending Locations. Upon the
   expiration of the yearlong period, the DCRA Director shall oversee the
   lottery.

   539.2. Stationary Roadway Vending Locations shall be assigned as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	All Stationary Roadway Vending Locations shall be allocated by lottery;
   
   
   
   (b)	The lottery shall be conducted monthly, with Vending Locations allocated
   	to a vendor by the following days of the week:
   
   
   
   (1)	Monday;
   
   
   
   (2)	Tuesday;
   
   
   
   (3)	Wednesday;
   
   
   
   (4)	Thursday;
   
   
   
   (5)	Friday;
   
   
   
   (6)	Saturday; or
   
   
   
   (7)	Sunday.
   
   
   
   (c)	There shall be equal allocation in the lottery of Class A and Class B
   	licenses; and
   
   
   
   (d)	No vendor shall be issued Stationary Roadway Vending Site Permits for
   	more than two (2) Stationary Roadway Vending Sites at any one time.

   539.3. No Stationary Roadway Vending Site Permit shall be distributed until
   full payment is received from the roadway vendor or person.

   539.4. A vendor shall have thirty-five (35) calendar days from the billing
   date to remit payment for the Stationary Roadway Vending Locations the vendor
   has won. Failure to remit payment shall allow the DCRA Director to rescind the
   offer to the winning vendor.

   539.5. The DCRA Director may lottery off unclaimed Stationary Roadway Vending
   Locations until all Stationary Roadway Vending Locations are awarded.

   539.6. The DCRA Director shall register licensed roadway vendors, which may
   include both stationary roadway vendors and mobile roadway vendors, for
   participation in the lottery by assigning each vendor a registration number.

   539.7. No vendor may participate in the lottery for Stationary Roadway Vending
   Locations unless the vendor holds a valid Vending Business License for roadway
   vending and is registered for the lottery.

   539.8. No vendor may operate on more than one (1) Stationary Roadway Vending
   Location per day, and only one (1) vendor may occupy an assigned Stationary
   Roadway Vending Location as described on the Stationary Roadway Vending Site
   Permit, unless otherwise specified by the DCRA Director on the Stationary
   Roadway Vending Site Permit.

   539.9. No lottery registration or Stationary Roadway Vending Location
   assignment or permits may be transferred from a vendor to any other person.

   539.10. The DCRA Director may contract out the function of performing the
   lottery for Stationary Roadway Vending Locations; provided that the lottery
   may be subject to any government-required audit or review.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
