                                  DC REGULATIONS

VENDING DEVELOPMENT ZONES (§ 24-570)

570.1. The DCRA Director may establish Vending Development Zones (VDZ) to
   promote new and innovative vending practices designed to achieve the following
   objectives:
   
   
   
   (a)	For communities to utilize vending and public markets to create unique
   	and attractive destinations and increase foot traffic in commercial
   	corridors;
   
   
   
   (b)	For communities to have expanded capability to manage vending and 	public
   markets in unique high-density hospitality zones;
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide opportunities for vendors to expand their creativity and
   	entrepreneurship in both their products and their carts, stands, or vehicles;
   
   
   
   (d)	Expand vending and public market opportunities for small and local
   	businesses;
   
   
   
   (e)	Improve the safety, appearance, and use of public space;
   
   
   
   (f)	Allow for greater expansion of the creative economy through the addition
   	of entertainment and artistic business ventures in public space;
   
   
   
   (g)	Attract retail to emerging corridors by bringing new retail energy to
   	neighborhoods; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Strengthen the retail base and create opportunities for vibrant retail
   streets 	and corridors and ensure shoppers have a greater selection of
   products and 	services.

   570.2. Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter and of Chapter 13 of
   Title 19 of the DCMR, the DCRA Director shall allow a VDZ greater flexibility
   in complying with regulations governing the:
   
   
   
   (a)	Location of vendors in public space, provided, that no category of
   	Vending Business License is specifically excluded;
   
   
   
   (b)	Method for assigning Vending Locations, including the exclusion of any
   	roadway vending vehicle that is not expressly included by Vending Site
   	Permit in the VDZ;
   
   
   
   (c)	Design standards for vending vehicles, vending carts, roadway vending
   	vehicles, and vending stands;
   
   
   
   (d)	Hours of operation;
   
   (e)	Length of time for which a Vending Site Permit shall be issued; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Special performance and entertainment requirements of Chapter 13 of 	Title
   19 of the DCMR.

   570.3. The DCRA Director may establish a VDZ upon the approval of an
   application submitted by a business association, community organization,
   Advisory Neighborhood Commissions (ANCs), Business Improvement Districts
   (BIDs), or District government agency.

   570.4. The DCRA Director shall administer the process for reviewing
   applications in consultation with the following Coordinating Agencies:
   
   
   
   (a)	Department of Small and Local Business Development;
   
   
   
   (b)	Department of Health;
   
   
   
   (c)	District Department of Transportation; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Office of Planning.

   570.5. A VDZ application shall be reviewed in a two (2)-part process:
   
   
   
   (a)	The applicant shall submit five (5) hard copies or one (1) electronic copy
   	of a pre-application to the DCRA Director who shall forward a copy to 	each
   Coordinating Agency. The pre-application shall include the 	following
   information:
   
   
   
   (1)	The applicant’s mission, bylaws, process for electing officers, and
   	public meeting requirements where applicable or, in the case of a
   	Coordinating Agency, its mission and responsibilities;
   
   
   
   (2)	The purpose and intent of establishing a VDZ, including aspects of
   	placemaking and creative economy planning;
   
   
   
   (3)	A map delineating the proposed boundaries of the VDZ and all 	current
   Vending Locations; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Where applicable, any partner organizations collaborating on the
   	application.
   
   
   
   (b)	Upon verification of the items required by paragraph (a), the DCRA
   	Director shall approve the pre-application. Within ninety (90) calendar 	days
   of notification from the DCRA Director of pre-application approval, 	the
   applicant shall, in consultation with the Coordinating Agencies, 	prepare and
   submit five (5) hard copies or one (1) electronic copy of a 	VDZ application
   to the DCRA Director. The application shall demonstrate 	how the purpose and
   intent of the proposed VDZ will be realized and 	include the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A description of the proposed innovative vending strategy or 	expanded
   management opportunity;
   
   
   
   (2)	A map showing proposed vending and public market locations;
   
   
   
   (3)	An implementation plan that may include, but is not limited to:
   
   
   
   (A)	Financial assistance, equipment assistance, storage 	assistance, technical
   advice, or business planning support 	for existing and potential new vendors;
   
   
   
   (B)	Marketing strategy for placemaking, coordinated design, 	semi-permanent
   fixtures, entertainment, or creative 	economy programming;
   
   
   
   (C)	Partnership opportunities; and
   
   
   
   (D)	Diversity of products or services offered;
   
   
   
   (4) 	A plan for coordinating with existing vendors and businesses 	located
   within the proposed VDZ; and
   
   
   
   (5) 	Any other information that the DCRA Director requires.

   570.6. The DCRA Director and coordinating agencies shall review VDZ
   applications to identify any issues that the applicant must resolve prior to
   further processing of the application. Additionally:
   
   
   
   (a)	The DCRA Director shall forward each VDZ application to the 	Coordinating
   Agencies for evaluation based upon:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Compliance with objectives defined in § 570.1; and
   
   
   
   (2) 	The ability of the applicant to achieve the proposed innovative 	vending
   strategy;
   
   
   
   (b)	Each Coordinating Agency shall review the application concurrently 	within
   forty-five (45) days and forward any issues to the DCRA Director;
   
   
   
   (c)	The DCRA Director shall notify the applicant in writing or electronically
   	of any issues identified by a Coordinating Agency and the applicant shall
   	work with the Coordinating Agencies to address all issues within thirty 	(30)
   days of receiving written or electronic notification. The Coordinating
   	Agencies shall notify the Director when all issues have been resolved; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The Director may deny an application if the applicant is unable to resolve
   	any issues identified by the Coordinating Agencies within the forty-five
   	(45-) day time period set forth in Subsection (b), but extend the forty-five
   	(45-) day period for good cause.

   570.7. Within forty-five (45) days of receiving favorable reports from all
   coordinating agencies, DCRA shall publish notice of the proposed vending
   development zone in the District of Columbia Register. Within forty-five (45)
   days of publication of notice in the D.C. Register, DCRA shall hold a public
   hearing to solicit public comments on the VDZ application. The DCRA Director
   shall publish notice of the hearing in the District of Columbia Register, give
   notice of the hearing to the affected Advisory Neighborhood Commission, and
   post copies of the application on the DCRA website at least fifteen (15)
   calendar days before the hearing.

   570.8. Within forty-five (45) days after the public hearing, the DCRA Director
   shall either approve or deny the VDZ application based upon the information in
   the VDZ application and the findings from the public hearing.

   570.9. The DCRA Director shall assist in the implementation of the VDZ vending
   strategy. Vending Business Licenses and Vending Site Permits shall be issued
   consistent with the approved VDZ application. Pursuant to the VDZ vending
   strategy, the DCRA Director shall manage the site delegation and distribution
   of Vendor Locations to vendor site applicants.

   570.10. The DCRA Director may require the VDZ applicant or vendors in a VDZ to
   provide information or reports that are needed to assess long-term benefits or
   disadvantages of the innovative vending practices.

   570.11. The Director may suspend or revoke a vendor’s Vending Business
   License or Vending Site Permit if the vendor fails to comply with the VDZ
   vending strategy.

   570.12. The Director shall discontinue a VDZ if:
   
   
   
   (a)	The VDZ vending strategy fails to achieve the purpose and intent of the
   	VDZ; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The Director determines that it is not in the best interest of the public
   to 	continue the VDZ, based on such factors as:
   
   
   
   (1)	Poor management of the VDZ;
   
   
   
   (2)	Unsafe conditions resulting from the VDZ; and
   
   (3)	Failure to follow or maintain the vending plan contained in the 	VDZ
   application.

   570.13. Before the DCRA Director discontinues a VDZ, the DCRA Director shall
   provide written notice to the businesses, organizations, or agencies
   administering the VDZ of the intent to discontinue the VDZ and the reasons for
   the discontinuance.

   570.14. Within forty-five (45) days of receiving the written notice from the
   DCRA Director, the businesses, organizations, or agencies administering the
   VDZ shall cure the identified reasons for the discontinuance of the VDZ. The
   DCRA Director, at his or her discretion, may extend the forty-five (45) day
   period for good cause.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
