                                  DC REGULATIONS

VENDING DEPOT REQUIREMENTS (§ 24-574)

574.1. Vending depots servicing vending vehicles or carts with Class A Vending
   Business Licenses shall provide all of the following services to a vendor in
   accordance with Chapter 37, Subtitle A (Food and Food Operations) of Title 25
   of the DCMR:
   
   
   
   (a)	Storage of the vending vehicle or cart;
   
   
   
   (b)	Food preparation, including approved food handling areas, as needed;
   
   
   
   (c)	Proper storage of inventory, such as food, utensils and supplies;
   
   
   
   (d)	Basic maintenance and cleaning, including:
   
   
   
   (1)	Hot and cold water;
   
   
   
   (2)	Sloped and properly drained cleaning area;
   
   
   
   (3)	Potable water; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Electrical outlets; and
   
   
   
   (e) 	Proper disposal of trash and food waste, such as garbage and liquid.

   574.2. The operator of a vending depot shall maintain a ledger that includes
   current information on the name, license number, and address of each vendor
   and supplier doing business with the operator. This ledger shall be made
   available during regular business hours for inspection by any duly authorized
   District government agent in accordance with § 3701, Subtitle A of Title 25
   of the DCMR.

   574.3. The operator of a vending depot may offer additional services to a
   vendor, such as the wholesale sale of food or beverages or towing services;
   provided, that the vending depot shall not require that a vendor accept any
   additional services as part of the contract to provide the minimum services
   set forth in § 574.1.

   574.4. The operator of a vending depot shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding registration of
   	the person’s business with the Office of Tax and Revenue and DCRA;
   
   
   
   (b)	Obtain all necessary business licenses from DCRA; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Comply with the Subtitle A of Title 25 of the DCMR and all applicable
   	standards imposed by DOH or other relevant agencies.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
