                                  DC REGULATIONS

DESIGN STANDARDS[COLON] VENDING STANDS (ยง 24-547)

547.1. The design and operation of all vending stands shall conform with the
   following  requirements, unless otherwise authorized by the DCRA Director on
   the Vending Site Permit:
   
   
   
   (a)	The stand shall consist of a wood, plastic, or metal table with attached
   	folding legs, a stair-stepped structure approved by the DCRA Director, or 	a
   shoe-shine stand structure approved by the DCRA Director. If the stand 	or
   structure is made of wood, the wood shall consist of weather-resistant 	lumber
   with two (2) coats of varnish or non-toxic paint;
   
   
   
   (b)	The stand shall not exceed a maximum horizontal surface area of seven
   	feet by four feet six inches (7 ft. x 4 ft. 6 in.);
   
   
   
   (c)	The surface area of the table (or the highest surface area of the stair
   	stepped structure) shall be at a height of between one foot (1 ft.) and four
   	and a half feet (4.5 ft.);
   
   
   
   (d)	The stand shall have a canopy that shall not exceed seven feet nine inches
   	by five feet three inches (7 ft. 9 in. x 5 ft. 3 in.) and shall be comprised
   of 	water-resistant canvas or six (6) ply polyurethane material covering a
   	metal or wood frame mounted above the stand.  The uppermost point of 	the
   canopy shall not exceed more than nine feet (9 ft.) in height and the 	lowest
   point on the canopy, inclusive of any canopy flap, shall not be less 	than
   seven feet (7 ft.) in height, measured from the sidewalk pavement. 	The canopy
   shall be clean and in good repair;
   
   
   
   (e)	A skirt or tablecloth shall be attached to the table surface on all sides
   and 	shall extend from the table surface to no more than one inch (1 in.) from
   	the sidewalk pavement. The skirt shall be clean and in good repair; and
   
   
   
   (f)	No free standing racks or other free-standing forms of display shall be
   	allowed around the stand.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
