                                  DC REGULATIONS

DESIGN STANDARDS[COLON] FOOD VENDING CARTS AND VEHICLES (§ 24-548)

548.1. All vending vehicles and vending carts that vend food shall be
   inspected and approved by the DOH Director as being of a design which is
   approved by, or is equivalent to a design approved by, the National Sanitation
   Foundation.  All equipment used in the vehicle or cart for the vending of food
   shall be inspected and approved by the DOH Director as being of commercial
   grade and in compliance with National Sanitation Foundation standards or the
   equivalent.

   548.2. If DCRA waives any design standard for a food vending cart or vehicle
   that is not in compliance with §§ 545, 546, 547, or 548, a written waiver
   approving the non-compliant cart or vehicle shall be issued by DCRA, MPD, and
   DDOT to the DOH Director prior to DOH either conducting a food safety code
   compliance inspection pursuant to Subtitle A of Title 25 of the DCMR or
   issuing a health inspection certificate.

   548.3. All vending vehicles and vending carts that vend food shall be designed
   and operated in accordance with all relevant food safety laws and may be
   required to include:
   
   
   
   (a)	A fresh water tank with at least a five gallon (5 gal.) capacity or more
   for 	food vending carts;
   
   
   
   (b)	A fresh water tank with at least a thirty-eight gallon (38 gal.) capacity
   or 	more for food vending vehicles;
   
   
   
   (c)	A waste water tank with a capacity fifteen percent (15%) or larger than
   the 	required fresh water tank;
   
   
   
   (d)	A three (3) compartment sink with hot and cold running water;
   
   
   
   (e)	A separate hand washing sink with mixing faucet;
   
   
   
   (f)	Walls, ceiling, and floors that are smooth and easily cleanable;
   
   
   
   (g)	Natural or electrical lighting to provide a minimum of fifty (50) candles
   of 	light on work surfaces;
   
   
   
   (h)	A generator-powered refrigerator that will maintain stored foods at
   forty-	one degrees Fahrenheit (41° F) or below and that has sufficient
   holding 	capacity for one (1) day of operation;
   
   
   
   (i)	A generator-powered freezer that will hold stored foods at zero degrees
   	Fahrenheit (0° F) or below and that has sufficient holding capacity for one
   	(1) day of operation; and
   
   (j)	Adequate ventilation.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
