                                  DC REGULATIONS

VENDING LOCATIONS[COLON] STATIONARY ROADWAY VENDING LOCATIONS[COLON] ADDITIONAL
LOCATIONS (§ 24-532)

532.1. The DDOT Director, in consultation with the DCRA Director, may
   designate or modify Stationary Roadway Vending Locations in addition to those
   authorized in § 531.1; provided, that no additional Stationary Roadway
   Vending Location shall be designated:
   
   (a)	Within areas under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States Park
   	Police, the United States Capitol Police, or any other agency of the United
   	States government;
   
   
   
   (b)	Within a loading zone, entrance zone, parking space designated for
   	diplomatic parking, or other curbside zone restricted for certain vehicles or
   	uses;
   
   
   
   (c)	On a snow emergency route designated under § 4024 of Chapter 40 	(Traffic
   Signs and Restrictions at Specific Locations) of Title 18 (Vehicles 	and
   Traffic) of the DCMR;
   
   
   
   (d)	Within forty feet (40 ft.) of an intersection;
   
   
   
   (e)	Along the length of a Metrobus Stop Zone, a commuter bus zone, an
   	intercity bus zone, or other curbside zone specifically designated and
   	demarcated as being for transit use;
   
   
   
   (f)	Within forty feet (40 ft.) of the driveway entrance to a police or fire
   station, 	or within twenty feet (20 ft.) of any other driveway;
   
   
   
   (g)	Within twenty feet (20 ft.) of an alley;
   
   
   
   (h)	Within forty feet (40 ft.) of any crosswalk;
   
   
   
   (i)	Between the south side of Independence Avenue and the north side of
   	Constitution Avenue, bounded by Rock Creek Parkway on the west and 	4th
   Street NE/SE on the east; or
   
   
   
   (j)	Five feet (5 ft) from a building’s marked fire control room.

   532.2. Upon the designation of additional Stationary Roadway Vending
   locations, a lottery shall be conducted by the DCRA Director to assign these
   Stationary Roadway Vending locations. Any Stationary Roadway Vending Locations
   not assigned during this lottery shall be included in the lottery conducted
   pursuant to § 539.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
