                                  DC REGULATIONS

VENDING LOCATIONS[COLON] MOBILE ROADWAY VENDING LOCATIONS[COLON] ADDITIONAL
LOCATIONS (§ 24-535)

535.1. A MRV vehicle operating outside of a designated MRV location
   established pursuant to § 534 shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Vend in a legal parking space that meets the requirements of § 535.2;
   
   
   
   (b)	Pay all parking meter fees; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Obey all posted time restrictions.

   535.2. A MRV vehicle operating outside of a designated MRV location or an Ice
   Cream Roadway vendor operating under § 543 shall not park and vend:
   
   
   
   (a)	Within areas under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States Park
   	Police, the United States Capitol Police, or any other agency of the United
   	States government;
   
   
   
   (b)	Within a designated loading zone, entrance zone, parking space designated
   	for diplomatic parking, valet parking, or other curbside zone restricted for
   	certain vehicles or uses;
   
   
   
   (c)	Where the adjacent unobstructed sidewalk is less than six feet (6 ft.)
   wide; 	provided, that for purposes of this subsection:
   
   
   
   (1) 	An obstruction shall not include objects such as trees, tree boxes,
   	parking meters, bicycle racks, individual newspaper boxes, utility 	poles, or
   other similar objects that would not restrict safe 	pedestrian passage of the
   sidewalk permeable or point obstruction, 	such as a parking meter, is not
   considered an obstruction; and
   
   
   
   (2)	An obstruction shall include impermeable structures, such as 	sidewalk
   cafes, benches, retaining walls, fenced or raised planters, 	bicycle racks,
   rows of newspaper boxes, Capital Bikeshare stations, 	bus shelters, or other
   similar objects, that are immediately adjacent 	or parallel to the curb and
   would restrict safe pedestrian passage on 	the sidewalk.
   
   
   
   (d)	Along the length of a Metrobus Stop Zone, a commuter bus zone, an
   	intercity bus zone, or other curbside zone specifically designated and
   	demarcated as being for transit use;
   
   
   
   (e)	Within forty feet (40 ft.) of the driveway entrance to a police or fire
   station, 	or within twenty feet (20 ft.) of any other driveway;
   
   
   
   (f)	Within twenty feet (20 ft.) of an alley;
   
   
   
   (g)	Within forty feet (40 ft.) of any crosswalk;
   
   
   
   (h)	Ten feet (10 ft.) of a fire hydrant;
   
   
   
   (i)	Any of the locations enumerated in § 535.3;
   
   
   
   (j)	Any location that is not a legal parking space;
   
   
   
   (k)	Any location that is immediately adjacent to a duly permitted sidewalk
   	café;
   
   
   
   (l)	Five feet (5 ft.) from a building’s marked fire control room; and
   
   
   
   (m)	Within an area designated as a Stationary Roadway Vending Location.

   535.3. A MRV vehicle operating under this section shall not vend at the
   following locations:
   
   
   
   (a)	Constitution Avenue NE/NW between 23rd Street, NW, and 2nd Street, 	NE;
   
   
   
   (b)	Independence Avenue SE/SW between 23rd Street, NW, and 2nd Street, 	NE;
   
   
   
   (c)	17th Street, NW/SW, between Independence Avenue, SW, and H Street, 	NW;
   
   
   
   (d)	15th Street, NW/SW, between Independence Avenue, SW, and H Street, 	NW;
   
   
   
   (e)	14th Street, NW/SW, between Constitution Avenue, NW, and 	Independence
   Avenue, SW;
   
   
   
   (f)	7th Street, NW/SW, between Constitution Avenue, NW, and 	Independence
   Avenue, SW;
   
   
   
   (g)	4th Street, NW/SW, between Constitution Avenue, NW, and 	Independence
   Avenue, SW;
   
   
   
   (h)	3rd Street, NW/SW, between Constitution Avenue, NW, and 	Independence
   Avenue, SW;
   
   
   
   (i)	1st Street, NE/SE, between Constitution Avenue, NE, and Independence
   	Avenue, SE;
   
   (j)	East Capitol Street, NE, between 1st Street, NE, and 2nd Street, NE;
   
   
   
   (k)	Madison Drive, NW, between 15th Street, NW, and 3rd Street, NW;
   
   
   
   (l)	Jefferson Drive, SW, between 15th Street, SW, and 3rd Street, SW;
   
   
   
   (m)	Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, between 15th Street, NW, and 1st Street, NW;
   
   
   
   (n)	Maryland Avenue, SW, between Independence Avenue, SW, and 1st 	Street,
   	SW; and
   
   
   
   (o)	1st Street, NW/SW, between Constitution Avenue, NW, and Independence
   	Avenue, SW.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
