                                  DC REGULATIONS

DESIGN STANDARDS[COLON] VENDING CARTS (ยง 24-545)

545.1. No vending cart, including any display on or attachments to the cart
   allowed by this section, shall exceed the following dimensions unless
   specified by the DCRA Director on the Vending Site Permit:
   
   
   
   (a)	Four feet six inches (4 ft. 6 in.) in width, unless the vendor vends food
   	from the vending cart, in which case the vending cart shall not exceed five
   	feet (5 ft.) in width;
   
   
   
   (b)	Seven feet (7 ft.) in length, unless the vendor vends food from the
   vending 	cart, in which case the cart shall not exceed eight feet (8 ft.) in
   length; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Eight feet six inches (8 ft. 6 in.) in height, measured from the bottom of
   	the tire.

   545.2. A vending cart shall be covered by either:
   
   
   
   (a)	One (1) umbrella, which shall not exceed nine feet (9 ft.) in diameter nor
   	extend more than four and one half feet (4.5 ft.) in any direction from the
   	body of the cart; or
   
   
   
   (b)	One (1) canopy which shall not overhang more than six inches (6 in.) in
   	any direction from the body of the cart.

   545.3. Any umbrella or canopy used to cover a vending cart:
   
   
   
   (a)	Shall be made of water-resistant canvas with wood or metal frames; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Shall not contain any advertising other than advertising allowed under ยง
   	549.

   545.4. No food or merchandise shall be hung or otherwise displayed from the
   back of the vending cart.

   545.5. No food or merchandise, hung or otherwise displayed on the front of the
   vending cart, shall extend more than two feet (2 ft.) from the front of the
   vending cart or extend past the sides of the vending cart.

   545.6. All food, merchandise, and equipment, other than food or merchandise
   hung or displayed on the front of the vending cart, shall be contained within
   or beneath the body of the vending cart; provided, that up to two (2) coolers
   or containers with food may be placed immediately adjacent to the vending
   cart, at least four inches (4 in.) off the ground, and in compliance with DOH
   food storage regulations; and provided further, that the total size of the
   coolers or containers taken together shall not exceed the length of the cart
   (eight feet (8 ft.)).

   545.7. The cart shall be placed on one (1) or more wheels; provided, that:
   
   
   
   (a)	The wheels shall not exceed two feet eight inches (2 ft. 8 in.) in
   diameter;
   
   
   
   (b)	The wheels shall be a wood or metal frame with rubber trim for tires; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The cart may include stabilizing legs in addition to the wheel or wheels.

   545.8. The vending cart shall be equipped with a chock to be used to prevent
   the cart from rolling or moving.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
