                                  DC REGULATIONS

VENDING LOCATIONS[COLON] SIDEWALK VENDING (§ 24-525)

525.1. All sidewalk Vending Locations shall be in accordance with the
   following standards:
   
   
   
   (a)	Sidewalk Vending Locations shall only be located along streets within:
   
   
   
   (1)	The Central Vending Zone;
   
   
   
   (2)	Neighborhood Vending Zones;
   
   
   
   (3)	The Old Georgetown Vending Zone; and
   
   
   
   (4)	The Nationals Park Vending Zone.
   
   
   
   (b)	No more than three (3) sidewalk Vending Locations shall be designated on
   	any side of any city block;
   
   
   
   (c)	No sidewalk Vending Location shall be designated:
   
   
   
   (1)	In front of a predominately residential building outside the Central
   	Vending Zone;
   
   
   
   (2)	On the median strip of a divided roadway, unless the strip is 	intended
   for use as a pedestrian mall or plaza;
   
   
   
   (3)	Along the length of a Metrobus Stop Zone, a commuter bus zone, 	an
   intercity bus zone, or other curbside zone specifically 	designated and
   demarcated as being for transit use;
   
   
   
   (4)	In a location that is on or that impedes free access to service or
   	ventilation grates or covers;
   
   
   
   (5)	On a restricted street designated in § 526.3; or
   
   
   
   (6)	Within any area under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United 	States
   Park Police, the United States Capitol Police, or any other 	agency of the
   United States government;
   
   
   
   (d)	Within the Central Vending Zone, sidewalk vending shall be prohibited on
   	sidewalks unless:
   
   
   
   (1)	A ten foot (10 ft.) clear passageway is maintained;
   
   
   
   (2)	The street is specifically exempted in § 526; or
   
   
   
   (3)	The DDOT Director waives this restriction pursuant to § 525.2;
   
   
   
   (e)	Outside the Central Vending Zone, sidewalk vending shall be prohibited 	on
   sidewalks unless:
   
   
   
   (1)	A seven foot (7 ft.) clear passageway is maintained;
   
   
   
   (2)	The sidewalk is specifically exempted in §§ 527, 528, or 529; or
   
   
   
   (3)	The DDOT Director waives this restriction pursuant to § 525.2;
   
   
   
   (f)	No sidewalk Vending Location shall be designated within:
   
   
   
   (1)	Twenty feet (20 ft.) of the driveway entrance to a police or fire
   	station;
   
   
   
   (2)	Ten feet (10 ft.) of any other driveway;
   
   
   
   (3)	Ten feet (10 ft.) of an alley;
   
   
   
   (4)	Ten feet (10 ft.) of another sidewalk Vending Location;
   
   
   
   (5)	Twenty feet (20 ft.) of the street-level entry to a Metrorail escalator;
   
   
   
   (6)	Ten (10 ft.) of the street-level door to a Metrorail elevator;
   
   
   
   (7)	A marked loading zone, entrance zone, or parking space 	designated for
   diplomatic parking, or other curbside location 	restricted for certain
   vehicles or uses;
   
   
   
   (8)	One hundred feet (100 ft.) of the entrance to a District or federal
   	courthouse, or within such greater distance as may be designated 	by the DDOT
   Director upon the written request of the courthouse 	administrator;
   
   
   
   (9)	Ten feet (10 ft.) of a fire hydrant or in-ground fire stand pipe;
   
   
   
   (10)	One hundred feet (100 ft.) of the main entrance to a building that is
   	predominantly used for a primary or secondary school, unless 	operations at
   the Vending Location are restricted to non-school 	days and time periods on
   school days that begin at least thirty (30) 	minutes after school has been
   dismissed at the end of the school 	day.  The DDOT Director may increase the
   minimum distance that 	a sidewalk Vending Location may be located from a
   specific 	school upon the written request of the Chancellor of the District of
   	Columbia Public Schools or the principal of that school;
   
   (11)	Twelve feet (12 ft.) of any crosswalk when on the vehicle approach 	side
   of the Vending Location and crosswalk;
   
   
   
   (12)	Five feet (5 ft.) from any crosswalk when not on the vehicle 	approach
   side of the Vending Location and crosswalk; and
   
   
   
   (13)	Five feet (5 ft) from a building’s marked fire control room.

   525.2. Upon the request of the DCRA Director, the DDOT Director may waive the
   minimum passageway requirement of §§ 525.1(d) or 525.1(e) if the DDOT
   Director determines there will not be an adverse impact on, among other
   things, pedestrian circulation and public safety. The DCRA Director shall note
   on the Vending Site Permit the issuance of the waiver by the DDOT Director.

   525.3. The passageway required by §§ 525.1(d) and 525.1(e) shall be measured
   from the closest allowable projection of the vending cart or stand to the
   nearest building, private property line, or interruption of the public space
   by a public amenity or fixture, whichever is nearest.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6846 (September 29, 1989); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
