                                  DC REGULATIONS

ASSIGNMENT OF SIDEWALK VENDING LOCATIONS (§ 24-538)

538.1. Designated unoccupied sidewalk Vending Locations identified by the DCRA
   Director and approved by the DDOT Director may be assigned to licensed
   sidewalk vendors through a lottery conducted by the DCRA Director. No vendor
   or applicant may participate in a lottery for unoccupied sidewalk Vending
   Locations unless the vendor holds a Vending Business License or the person
   holds a current receipt for payment of Vending Business License fees for
   sidewalk vending and is registered for the lottery.

   538.2. In addition to the lottery conducted pursuant to § 538.1, a vendor
   may, when submitting an application for a Vending Site Permit pursuant to §
   510.1(b), identify a potential sidewalk Vending Location that the vendor
   believes meets the DDOT standards in §§ 524-528. If the DDOT Director
   approves the location as an authorized sidewalk Vending Location, that Vending
   Location shall be assigned to the vendor who first identified it on his or her
   completed and accepted Vending Site Permit application.

   538.3. No holder of a Vending Business License shall be assigned more than
   five (5) sidewalk Vending Locations.

   538.4. No more than one (1) vendor may occupy an assigned Vending Location,
   unless the DCRA Director specifies on the Vending Site Permit that the Vending
   Location is subject to a shared site agreement between several licensed
   vendors.

   538.5. No lottery registration or Vending Location assignment may be
   transferred, sold, conveyed, or assigned from the assigned vendor to any other
   person. Any attempt to transfer a lottery registration or Vending Location
   assignment will disqualify from the lottery both the vendor seeking to
   transfer the registration and the person seeking to obtain it.

   538.6. The DCRA Director may contract out the function of performing the
   lotteries for sidewalk Vending Locations.

   538.7. No Vending Site Permit shall be distributed until full payment is
   received from the vendor or person.

   538.8. A vendor shall have thirty-five (35) calendar days from the billing
   date to remit payment for the sidewalk Vending Locations the vendor has won.
   Failure to remit payment shall allow the DCRA Director to rescind the Vending
   Site Permit offer.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13055 (September 20, 2013).
