                                  DC REGULATIONS

TIME LIMITATIONS (§ 1-405)

405.1. Within the time prescribed by applicable law following the receipt of a
   request, the agency shall determine whether to grant or to deny the request
   and shall dispatch its determination to the requester, unless an extension is
   made pursuant to §§ 405.2 and 405.3 of this section.

   405.2. In unusual circumstances as specified in § 405.3, the agency may
   extend the time for initial determination on a request up to the time
   prescribed by applicable law.

   405.3. An extension shall be made by written notice to the requester, which
   shall set forth the reason or reasons for the extension. As used in this
   section &#8220;unusual circumstances&#8221; means, but only to the extent
   necessary to the proper processing of the request, either of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous
   amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single
   request; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The need for consultation with another agency having a substantial
   interest in the determination of the request or among two (2) or more
   components of the agency having substantial subject matter interest therein.

   405.4. If no determination has been dispatched at the end of the period
   prescribed by law or the extension thereof, the requester may deem his or her
   request denied, and exercise a right of appeal in accordance with § 412.

   405.5. When no determination can be dispatched within the applicable time
   limit, the agency shall nevertheless continue to process the request. On
   expiration of the time limit, the agency shall inform the requester of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The reason for the delay;
   
   
   
   (b)	The date on which a determination may be expected; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The right to treat the delay as a denial and of the appeal rights provided
   by the Act and this chapter.
   
   
   
   The agency may ask the requester to forego appeal until a determination is
   made.

   405.6. For purposes of this chapter, a request is deemed received when the
   designated Freedom of Information Officer, or agency head in the absence of a
   designated Freedom of Information Officer, receives the request submitted in
   compliance with the Act and this chapter. When the Freedom of Information
   Officer, pursuant to § 402.5, contacts the requester for additional
   information, then the request is deemed received when the Freedom of
   Information Officer receives the additional information.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 24 DCR 6211, 6212-13 (January 27,
   1978); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 52, 54 (January 7,
   2005).
