                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECORDS MAINTAINED BY AGENCIES (ยง 1-413)

413.1. Each agency shall make and maintain records pertaining to each request
   for information, including copies of correspondence. The record(s) shall be
   filed by individual request.

   413.2. Each agency shall maintain a file, open to the public, which shall
   contain copies of all letters of denial.

   413.3. Where the release of the identity of the requester or other identifying
   details related to the request would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
   of personal privacy, the agency shall delete identifying details from the
   copies of the documents maintained in the public files.

   413.4. Each agency shall also maintain records permitting annual reporting of
   the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Total number of requests made to the agency;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number of requests granted and denied, in whole or in part;
   
   
   
   (c)	The number of times each exemption was invoked as the basis for
   nondisclosure;
   
   
   
   (d)	The names and titles or positions of each person responsible for the
   denial of records and the number of instances each person was involved in a
   denial; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The amount of fees collected, and the amount of fees for duplication and
   search waived by the agency.

   413.5. On or before the 31st day of December of each year, each agency shall
   compile and submit to the Secretary its report covering the fiscal year
   concluded the preceding September 30th pursuant to the provisions of this
   section and on other matters relating to agency compliance with the terms of
   the Act.

   413.6. With respect to appeals pursuant to ยง 412, the Secretary shall
   maintain records reflecting the number of appeals taken, the results of the
   appeals, and the number of times each exemption was invoked as the basis for
   non-disclosure.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 24 DCR 6211, 6218-19 (January 27,
   1978); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 52, 61 (January 7,
   2005).
