                                  DC REGULATIONS

REVIEW OF DENIALS (§ 1-412)

412.1. When a request for records has been denied in whole or in part by an
   agency, the requester may appeal the denial to the Mayor or may seek immediate
   judicial review of the denial in the D.C. Superior Court.

   412.2. Unless the Mayor otherwise directs, the Secretary shall act on behalf
   of the Mayor on all appeals under this section, except that in the case of an
   initial denial by the Secretary, the Mayor or the designee thereof shall act
   on the appeal. If the Mayor directs that a person other than the Secretary act
   on the Mayor’s behalf on appeals under this section, references in this
   chapter to the “Secretary” shall be deemed to refer instead to the person
   designated by the Mayor.

   412.3. An appeal to the Mayor shall be in writing. The appeal letter shall
   include “Freedom of Information Act Appeal” or “FOIA Appeal” in the
   subject line of the letter as well as marked on the outside of the envelope.
   The appeal shall be mailed to:
   
   
   
   Mayor&#8217;s Correspondence Unit
   
   FOIA Appeal
   
   1350 Pennsylvania Ave, NW
   
   Suite 221
   
   Washington, D.C. 20004
   
   
   
   The requester shall forward a copy of the appeal to the Freedom of Information
   Officer, or agency head in the absence of a designated Freedom of Information
   Officer, of the agency whose denial is the subject of the appeal.

   412.4. An appeal to the Mayor shall be in writing and shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Statement of the circumstances, reasons or arguments advanced in support
   of disclosure;
   
   
   
   (b)	Copy of the original request, if any;
   
   
   
   (c)	Copy of any written denial issued under § 407.2; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Daytime telephone number, email address or mailing address for the
   requester.

   412.5. Within five (5) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, or legal public
   holidays) of receipt of its copy of the FOIA appeal the agency shall file a
   response with the Secretary. The response shall include the following
   documents:
   
   
   
   (a)	The agency’s justification for its decision not to grant review of
   records as requested, to the extent not provided in the agency’s letter of
   denial to the requester;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any additional documentation as may be necessary and appropriate to
   justify the agency’s decision, such as a Vaughn index of documents withheld,
   an affidavit or declaration of a knowledgeable official or employee testifying
   to the decision to withhold documents, or such other similar proof as the
   circumstances may warrant; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A copy of the public record or records in dispute on the appeal; provided,
   that if the public record or records are voluminous, the agency may provide a
   representative sample; and provided further, that if the public record
   contains personal, sensitive, or confidential information, the public body may
   redact such information from the copy furnished the Secretary in a manner that
   makes clear that the agency has made redactions.

   412.6. An agency may request additional time to file documentation required by
   § 412.5 by filing a written or e-mailed request to the Secretary with a copy
   to the requester. The request for additional time must be filed within five
   (5) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) of receipt
   of the appeal. The Secretary will respond to the request for additional time
   with a copy to the requester. An agency that does not file the information
   required by § 412.5 within the time provided herein or such further time as
   the Secretary may provide in response to written or e-mail request shall be
   deemed to have waived its right to respond to the appeal.

   412.7. A written determination with respect to an appeal shall be made within
   ten (10) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) of the
   filing of the appeal.

   412.8. If the records, or any segregable part thereof, are found to have been
   improperly withheld, the Secretary shall order the agency to make them
   available. If the agency continues to withhold the records, the requester may
   seek enforcement of the order in the Superior Court.

   412.9. A denial in whole or in part of a request on appeal shall set forth the
   exemption relied upon, a brief explanation consistent with the purpose of the
   exemption of how the exemption applies to the records withheld, and the
   reasons for asserting it. The denial shall also inform the requester of the
   right of judicial review.

   412.10. If no determination has been dispatched at the end of the ten-day
   period, the requester may deem his or her appeal denied, and exercise his or
   her right to judicial review of the denial.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 24 DCR 6211, 6217-18 (January 27,
   1978); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 52, 59 (January 7,
   2005).
