                                  DC REGULATIONS

BARRING POLICY (§ 14-9600)

9600.1. The DCHA&#8217;s mission is to provide properties that are safe,
   decent, and sanitary dwelling units in which families may live. In addition,
   DCHA has the right to refuse entrance or access to any of its properties to
   any unauthorized person as defined in § 9600.2.

   9600.2. No person may enter upon a DCHA property unless that person is
   authorized to be on the property. The only persons authorized to be on a DCHA
   property are:
   
   
   
   (a)	Residents of the property;
   
   
   
   (b)	Members of the resident&#8217;s household;
   
   
   
   (c)	A resident&#8217;s guests, except as provided in § 9600.5;
   
   
   
   (d)	Persons authorized under § 9600.3;
   
   
   
   (e)	Organizations with a license to use a portion of a property for specified
   purposes, and including the invitees of a licensee;
   
   
   
   (f)	Persons employed by or doing business with DCHA at the property; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Persons engaged in the legal or law enforcement community who are engaging
   in activities directly related to civil or criminal matters, such as process
   servers, investigators, attorneys or other individuals legitimately on a
   property for such purpose.
   
   
   
   (h)	Persons authorized after consultation with the Resident Council as
   provided under section 9600.3 below.

   9600.3. Any person, not otherwise authorized under § 9600.2, seeking access
   to a DCHA property for legitimate business or social purposes shall be
   admitted as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any such person or organization shall submit a written request to the
   property management office of the respective DCHA development to which the
   person is seeking access.
   
   
   
   (b)	DCHA, in consultation with the resident council of the respective
   development, shall review the request and respond to the request in writing
   within ten (10) business days of the request stating approval or disapproval
   of the request. If DCHA has not responded within ten (10) business days, the
   request is deemed approved.

   9600.4. Any person not identified in § 9600.2 as an authorized person may be
   subject to the issuance of a Bar Notice for the period of time specified in
   the Bar Notice, not to exceed five years.

   9600.5. Resident&#8217;s guests may be subject to the issuance of a Temporary
   or Extended Bar Notice barring them from a specified development pursuant to
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any resident&#8217;s guest who engages in any activity that threatens the
   health, safety or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other
   residents or DCHA employees or violates DCHA policy is an unauthorized person
   and may be barred for a Temporary or extended period of time as specified in
   sub-sections (b) and (c) below.
   
   
   
   (b)	A Temporary Bar Notice shall remain in effect for the first infraction for
   sixty (60) days, a second infraction for six (6) months, and third infraction
   for one (1) year for the following infractions:
   
   
   
   (1)	Entering DCHA property without presenting identification or properly
   signing the visitor log, unless identified as a guest by the resident they are
   visiting;
   
   
   
   (2)	Being on DCHA property at a location or unit not specified on the guest
   pass or visitor log, unless the person is on the most direct route to or from
   such location, or accompanied personally by the resident being visited;
   
   
   
   (3)	Residing as an unauthorized occupant in a DCHA dwelling unit; or
   
   
   
   (4)	Engaging in excessively loud or disruptive conduct or otherwise disturbing
   the peace of DCHA residents or DCHA employees.
   
   
   
   (c)	An Extended Bar Notice shall remain in effect for five (5) years for the
   following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Persons issued more than four (4) bar notices for activities identified in
   § 9600.5(b);
   
   
   
   (2)	Engaging in conduct that is dangerous to the health or safety of residents
   or DCHA employees;
   
   
   
   (3)	Engaging in activities involving illegal drugs, violence, weapons, theft,
   assault, and serious damage to property; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Persons evicted from DCHA property on the basis of such person&#8217;s
   criminal or illegal activity.
   
   
   
   (d)	Nothing contained in this Chapter shall prevent a guest of a DCHA resident
   from access or entry to the resident&#8217;s dwelling unit for legitimate
   business or social purposes except as they may have been barred as provided in
   § 9600.5(b) or (c).
   
   
   
   (e)	For purposes of this sub-section a resident&#8217;s guest is any
   individual who is an invitee of, and can identify by name and unit number, an
   individual who is a member of a household under lease with DCHA, and such
   individual is available and willing to accept the guest and responsibility for
   the actions of the guest.

   9600.6. Bar Notices shall be applicable at the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Bar Notices issued to unauthorized persons under § 9600.4 or Temporary or
   Extended Bar Notices issued to guests under § 9600.5 may only be issued to
   bar such individuals from a particular DCHA-development.
   
   
   
   (b)	Bar Notices may not be issued to bar persons from public streets or
   sidewalks, or from private property adjoining DCHA property.

   9600.7. Bar Notices shall be served to persons pursuant to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Personal delivery or attempted delivery in writing of Bar Notices shall be
   made to each person barred from a DCHA property.
   
   
   
   (b)	The Bar Notice shall identify the basis for the issuance of the Bar Notice
   and the time period for which the person is barred from DCHA property. The Bar
   Notice shall reflect the date, method and manner of delivery upon the barred
   person. The Bar Notice does not have to be delivered to the person on DCHA
   property.
   
   
   
   (c)	A copy of the Bar Notice issued to a guest will be provided to the
   resident, if the guest has identified the unit number and name of the
   resident. A resident may file a grievance pursuant to the provisions of
   Chapter 89 of this Chapter if a guest of the resident has been barred.

   9600.8. Bar Notices shall only be issued by the following persons:
   
   
   
   (a)	Members of the DCHA Office of Public Safety including sworn officers and
   special police officers;
   
   
   
   (b)	Members of the Metropolitan Police Department;
   
   
   
   (c)	Members of cooperative law enforcement task forces as may be authorized by
   the Chief of DCHA Office of Public Safety; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Private security providers contracted by DCHA or DCHA&#8217;s agent.

   9600.9. Bar Notices and Barring Policy information shall be made available as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The DCHA Office of Public Safety shall keep copies of all Bar Notices and
   records of the expiration dates thereof;
   
   
   
   (b)	A copy of the Barring Policy, as set forth in this Chapter, shall be
   provided to each applicant upon signing a lease with DCHA;
   
   
   
   (c)	A copy of the Barring Policy, as set forth in this Chapter, shall be
   provided to the Resident Council for the development; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A copy of the Barring Policy, as set forth in this Chapter, shall be
   available at the management office for each development.

   9600.10. The issuance of a Bar Notice requires the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The barred person must immediately leave the DCHA property from which the
   person was barred and not return to that DCHA development for the period the
   Bar Notice remains in effect.
   
   
   
   (b)	Should the barred person fail to leave the DCHA property after the
   issuance of the Bar Notice, or later returns to the DCHA property noted on the
   Bar Notice at any time while the Bar Notice is in effect, the person may be
   arrested for &#8220;unlawful entry&#8221; pursuant to D.C. Code § 22-3302
   (2001 ed.) as amended.

   9600.11. Any barred person may submit a written request for a temporary lift
   of a Extended or Temporary Bar Notice to the Chief of the DCHA Office of
   Public Safety.
   
   
   
   (a)	The written request shall state the specific location and time period
   during which the barred person is seeking access, and the reason for the
   request of the temporary lift, including any documentation of a request for a
   reasonable accommodation.
   
   
   
   (b)	A temporary lift shall be for a period of not more than eight hours during
   one calendar day.
   
   
   
   (c)	A barred person may only be granted two (2) temporary lifts during any
   particular year of the imposition of a Bar Notice.
   
   
   
   (d)	Any barred person who commits a subsequent infraction on DCHA property
   during a period of a temporary lift shall be prohibited from requesting
   additional requests for temporary lifts during the remaining term of the Bar
   Notice.
   
   
   
   (e)	The Chief of DCHA Office of Public Safety will review the request of
   temporary lift and respond in writing within ten (10) days of the submission.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 5740
   (July 18, 2003) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 9397 (November 7, 2003) [EXPIRED]; as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 2108 (February 27, 2004); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 4217 (April 29, 2005).
