                                  DC REGULATIONS

LATE PROPOSALS, LATE MODIFICATIONS, AND LATE WITHDRAWALS (ยง 30-2308)

2308.1. Offerors shall submit proposals, and any modifications, so that they
   will reach the Agency office designated in the solicitation on time.

   2308.2. Unless the RFP states a specific time, the deadline for receipt of
   proposals shall be 2:00 p.m., local time, at the designated Agency office on
   the date that proposals are due.

   2308.3. Proposals and modifications to proposals that are received in the
   designated Agency office after the exact time specified in the RFP or under ยง
   2308.2 are &#8220;late&#8221; and shall be considered only if they are
   received before the award is made and one (1) or more of the following
   circumstances apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The proposal or modification was sent by registered or certified mail not
   later than the fifth (5th) calendar day before the date specified for receipt
   of proposals;
   
   
   
   (b)	The proposal or modification of proposal was sent by mail and it is
   determined by the contracting officer that the late receipt at the location
   specified in the RFP was caused by mishandling by the Agency after receipt; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The proposal is the only proposal received.

   2308.4. The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of a late proposal,
   late modification, or late withdrawal sent either by registered or certified
   mail shall be a U.S. or Canadian Postal Service postmark on the wrapper or on
   the original receipt from the U.S. or Canadian Postal Service. If neither
   postmark shows a legible date, the proposal, modification, or withdrawal shall
   be deemed to have been mailed late. If the postmark shows the date but not the
   hour, the time is presumed to be the last minute of the date shown. If no date
   is shown in the postmark, the proposal shall be considered late unless the
   offeror can furnish evidence from postal authorities of timely mailing.

   2308.5. Any request for withdrawal or request for modification received after
   the time and date set for submission of proposals at the place designate for
   submission of proposals shall be considered &#8220;late.&#8221;

   2308.6. A late proposal, late request for modification, or late request for
   withdrawal shall not be considered, except as provided in this section.

   2308.7. A late modification of a successful proposal which makes its terms
   more favorable to the Agency shall be considered at any time it is received
   and may be accepted.

   2308.8. A late proposal, late modification of proposal, or late withdrawal of
   proposal that is not considered shall be held unopened, unless opened for
   purposes of identification, until after award. The proposal shall then be
   retained with unsuccessful proposals.

   2308.9. The following information shall, if available, be included in the
   contract office files with respect to each late proposal, late modification of
   proposal, or late withdrawal of proposal:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement of the date and hour of mailing, filing, or delivery;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement of the date and hour of receipt;
   
   
   
   (c)	A written determination, with supporting facts, why the late proposal or
   modification was or was not considered for award;
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement of the disposition of the late action; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The envelope, or other covering, if the late proposal or modification was
   considered for award.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6744 (September 22, 1989).
