                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRICE AND COST ANALYSIS (ยง 30-2326)

2326.1. The contracting officer shall be responsible for selecting and using
   whatever price analysis techniques will ensure a fair and reasonable price.

   2326.2. One (1) or more of the following techniques may be used to perform
   price analysis:
   
   
   
   (a)	Comparison of proposed prices received in response to the solicitation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Comparison of prior proposed prices and contract prices with current
   proposed prices for the same or similar items;
   
   
   
   (c)	Application of rough yardsticks (such as dollars per pound or per
   horsepower, or other units) to highlight significant inconsistencies that
   warrant additional pricing inquiry;
   
   
   
   (d)	Comparison with competitive published price lists, published market prices
   of commodities, similar indexes, and discount or rebate arrangements; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Comparison of proposed price-s with independent Agency cost estimates.

   2326.3. The contracting officer shall be required to perform a cost analysis
   in either of the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	The award of any contract in excess of one hundred thousand dollars
   ($100,000); or
   
   
   
   (b)	The modification of any contract when the modification exceeds one hundred
   thousand dollars ($100,000).

   2326.4. If cost analysis is required, the contracting officer shall perform
   cost analysis by using the techniques and procedures set forth in this
   section.

   2326.5. The contracting officer shall verify cost or pricing data and evaluate
   the cost elements, including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The necessity for and reasonableness of the proposed cost, including
   allowances for contingencies;
   
   
   
   (b)	A projection of the offeror&#8217;s cost trends on the basis of current
   and historical cost or pricing data;
   
   
   
   (c)	A technical appraisal of the estimated labor, material, tooling and
   facilities requirements and of the reasonableness of scrap and spoilage
   factors; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The application of audited or negotiated indirect cost rates, labor rates,
   and other factors.

   2326.6. The contracting officer shall evaluate the effect of the
   offeror&#8217;s current practices on future costs. In conducting this
   evaluation, the contracting officer shall ensure that the effects of
   inefficient or uneconomical past practices are not projected into the future.

   2326.7. The contracting officer shall compare the costs proposed by the
   offeror for individual cost elements with the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Actual costs previously incurred by the same offeror;
   
   
   
   (b)	Previous cost estimates from the offeror or from other offerors for the
   same or similar items;
   
   
   
   (c)	Other cost estimates received in response to the Agency request;
   
   
   
   (d)	Independent Agency cost estimates; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Forecasts or planned expenditures.

   2326.8. The contracting officer shall verify that the offeror&#8217;s cost
   submissions are in accordance with the contract cost principles and procedures
   set forth in Chapter 33 of Title 27, Contracts and Procurements (hereafter
   &#8220;Title 27 DCMR&#8221;).

   2326.9. The contracting officer shall review each proposal to determine
   whether any cost or pricing data necessary to make the contractor&#8217;s
   proposal accurate, complete, and current have been submitted or identified In
   writing by the contractor.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6756 (September 22, 1989).
