                                  DC REGULATIONS

DISCLOSURE AND USE OF INFORMATION BEFORE AWARD (ยง 30-2310)

2310.1. During the pre-award period of a procurement by competitive sealed
   proposals, only the contracting officer and others specifically authorized by
   the Director or the contracting officer may transmit technical or other
   information, or conduct any discussions with prospective contractors.

   2310.2. After receipt of proposals, the information contained in them and the
   number or identity of offerors shall not be made available to the public or to
   anyone at the Agency not required to have access to the information in the
   performance of his or her duties.

   2310.3. No employee or agent of the Agency shall furnish information to a
   prospective contractor if, alone or together with other information, it might
   give the prospective contractor an advantage over others. However, general
   information that is not prejudicial to others may be furnished upon request.

   2310.4. In order to ensure that solicited proposals (whether bearing a
   restrictive notice or not) are properly handled, the following notice shall be
   placed on the cover sheet of each proposal upon receipt:
   
   
   
   NOTICE FOR HANDLING PROPOSALS
   
   
   
   This proposal shall be used and disclosed for evaluation purposes only, and a
   copy of this notice shall be applied to any reproduction or abstract of this
   proposal. Any authorized restrictive notices which the submitter places on
   this proposal shall also be strictly complied with. Disclosure of this
   proposal outside the Agency for evaluation purposes shall be made only to the
   extent authorized by, and in accordance with, the procedures established under
   the procurement rules of the Agency.

   2310.5. A contracting officer may release proposals outside the Agency for
   evaluation, consistent with the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	A written agreement shall be obtained from the outside evaluator that the
   information contained in the proposal will be used only for evaluation
   purposes and will not be further disclosed; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Any authorized restrictive legends placed on the proposal by the
   prospective contractor or subcontractor or by the Agency shall be affixed to
   any reproduction or abstracted information made by the evaluator.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6745 (September 22, 1989).
