                                  DC REGULATIONS

DISCUSSIONS WITH OFFERORS (ยง 30-2323)

2323.1. The contracting officer shall conduct written or oral discussions with
   all offerors in the competitive range, except in the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	If prices are fixed by law or regulation; or
   
   
   
   (b)	If it can be clearly demonstrated from the existence of full and open
   competition or accurate prior cost experience with the product or service that
   acceptance of the most favorable initial proposal without discussion would
   result in the lowest overall cost to the Agency at a fair and reasonable
   price.

   2323.2. If discussions are held with offerors, the contracting officer shall
   determine which proposals are in the competitive range, and shall conduct
   written or oral discussions with the offerors who submitted those proposals.

   2323.3. Among other areas of discussion, the contracting officer may enter
   into price negotiations with an offeror with the intent of agreeing on a fair
   and reasonable price.

   2323.4. The contracting officer shall not be required to reach agreement on
   every element of cost, and may make reasonable compromises if necessary and if
   compromise is in the best interests of the Agency.

   2323.5. If discussions are not held pursuant to ยง 2323.1(b), the following
   requirements shall be met:
   
   
   
   (a)	All offerors must have been notified of the possibility that an award
   might be made without discussion; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The award must be made without any written or oral discussion with any
   offeror.

   2323.6. The contracting officer shall ensure that, if discussions are held
   with any offeror within the competitive range, discussions are held with all
   offerors in the competitive range. The number and length of discussions held
   with each offeror may vary, depending on the need for clarification, the
   amount of progress made toward a satisfactory final proposal, and other
   factors affecting the need for discussion as determined by the contracting
   officer.

   2323.7. During discussion with offerors, the contracting officer shall do the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Control all discussions;
   
   
   
   (b)	Advise the offeror of deficiencies in its proposal so that the offeror is
   given an opportunity to satisfy the requirements of the Agency;
   
   
   
   (c)	Attempt to resolve any uncertainties concerning the technical aspects of
   the proposal and other terms and conditions of the proposal;
   
   
   
   (d)	Resolve any suspected mistakes by calling them to the offeror&#8217;s
   attention as specifically as possible without disclosing any information
   concerning other proposals submitted by other offerors or the evaluation
   process; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Provide the offeror a reasonable opportunity to submit any cost or price,
   technical, or other revisions to its proposal that may result from the
   discussions.

   2323.8. The contracting officer shall not assist an offeror to bring its
   proposal up to the level of other proposals through successive rounds of
   discussion, such as pointing out weaknesses resulting from the offeror&#8217;s
   lack of diligence, competence, or inventiveness in preparing the proposal. The
   contracting officer shall not disclose technical information pertaining to any
   proposal that results in the improvement of a competing proposal.

   2323.9. The contracting officer shall not indicate to an offeror a cost or
   price it must meet to obtain further consideration, advise an offeror of its
   standing relative to another offeror, or otherwise furnish information about
   any other offeror&#8217;s prices or terms.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6753 (September 22, 1989).
