                                  DC REGULATIONS

BEST AND FINAL OFFERS (ยง 30-2324)

2324.1. If a contract is for one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or less,
   and if, after completion of discussions with all offerors in the competitive
   range, the contracting officer determines that the award of the contract to
   one (1) of the offerors is clearly in the best interests of the Agency, based
   on the discussions held and the proposals, the contracting officer may award
   the contract Without requesting best and final offers.

   2324.2. Except as provided in ยง 2324.1, after completion of all discussions,
   the contracting officer shall issue to all offerors within the competitive
   range a request for best and final offers.

   2324.3. The request for best and final offers shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Notice that discussions are concluded;
   
   
   
   (b)	Notice that this is the opportunity to submit a best and final offer;
   
   
   
   (c)	A cut-off date and time that allows a reasonable opportunity for
   submission of written best and final offers; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Notice that if any modification of the best and final offer is submitted,
   it must be received by the date and time specified under ยง2324.3(c) and is
   subject to the provisions of this chapter covering late proposals.

   2324.4. After receipt of test and final offers, the contracting officer shall
   not reopen discussions unless it is clearly in the best interests of the
   Agency to do so.

   2324.5. Reasons for reopening discussions may include, but are not limited to,
   the fact that it is clear that information available at the time is inadequate
   to reasonably justify contractor selection and award based on the best and
   final offers received.

   2324.6. If discussions are reopened, the contracting officer shall issue an
   additional request for best and final offers to all offerors within the
   competitive range.

   2324.7. After evaluation of the best and final offers, the contracting officer
   shall select the offeror whose best and final offer is most advantageous to
   the Agency, considering price and other factors that were included in the
   solicitation.

   2324.8. The contracting officer shall prepare supporting documentation for the
   selection decision that shows the relative differences among the proposals and
   their strengths, weaknesses, and risks in terms of the evaluation factors. The
   supporting documentation shall include the basis for the selection of the
   contractor.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6755 (September 22, 1989).
