                                  DC REGULATIONS

CHANGES IN AGENCY REQUIREMENTS (ยง 30-2317)

2317.1. When, either before or after receipt of proposals, the Agency
   increases, decreases, or otherwise changes its requirements, the contracting
   officer shall issue a written amendment to the RFP, in accordance with ยง
   2306.

   2317.2. In deciding which firms to notify of a change, the contracting officer
   shall consider the state in the procurement cycle at which the change occurs
   and the magnitude of the change, as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	If proposals are not yet due, the amendment shall be sent to all firms
   that have received a solicitation;
   
   
   
   (b)	If the time for receipt of proposals has passed but proposals have not yet
   been evaluated, the amendment shall be sent only to the responding offerors;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	If the competitive range has been established, the amendment shall be sent
   only to those offerors within the competitive range.

   2317.3. If a change is so substantial that it warrants complete revision of a
   solicitation, the contracting officer shall cancel the original RFP and issue
   a new RFP, regardless of the state of the procurement. The new RFP shall be
   issued to all firms originally solicited and to any firms added to the
   original list. The new RFP shall be advertised in accordance with the
   requirements of this title.

   2317.4. If the proposal considered to be most advantageous to the Agency (as
   determined by using the established evaluation criteria) involves a departure
   from the stated requirements, the contracting officer shall give all offerors
   an opportunity to submit new or amended proposals on the basis of the revised
   requirements, if this can be done without revealing to the other offerors the
   solution proposed in the original departure or any other information that is
   entitled to protection.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6750 (September 22, 1989).
