                                  DC REGULATIONS

EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS (ยง 30-2321)

2321.1. The contracting officer shall evaluate each proposal in accordance
   with the evaluation criteria in the solicitation.

   2321.2. The contracting officer shall evaluate the cost estimate or price, not
   only to determine whether it is reasonable, but also to determine the
   offeror&#8217;s understanding of the work and ability to perform the contract.

   2321.3. The contracting officer shall document the cost or price evaluation.

   2321.4. If any technical evaluation is necessary beyond ensuring that the
   proposal meets the minimum requirements in the solicitation, the contracting
   officer shall forward the proposals to the appropriate Agency official for
   technical evaluation.

   2321.5. If a technical evaluation is done, a technical evaluation report shall
   be prepared by the Agency official making or supervising the evaluation. The
   report shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The basis for evaluation;
   
   
   
   (b)	An analysis of the technically acceptable and unacceptable proposals,
   including an assessment of each offeror&#8217;s ability to accomplish the
   technical requirements;
   
   
   
   (c)	A summary, matrix, or quantitative ranking of each technical proposal in
   relation to the best rating possible; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A summary of findings.

   2321.6. A contracting officer may reject all proposals received in response to
   a solicitation by a written determination which concludes that to do so would
   be in the best interests of the Agency. The contracting officer&#8217;s
   determination shall be approved by the Director.

   2321.7. The reasons given for rejection may include, but are not limited to,
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	None of the proposals meet the requirements of the Agency;
   
   
   
   (b)	None of the proposals is acceptable for technical or other reasons;
   
   
   
   (c)	All otherwise acceptable proposals received are at unreasonable prices; or
   
   
   
   (d)	The proposals were not independently arrived at in open competition, were
   collusive, or were submitted in bad faith.

   2321.8. When all proposals are rejected and no award will be made as a result
   of the RFP, the contracting officer shall cancel the RFP.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6751 (September 22, 1989)
