                                  DC REGULATIONS

UNSOLICITED PROPOSALS (ยง 30-2312)

2312.1. Unsolicited proposals may be considered by the Director in order to
   obtain innovative or unique methods or approaches to accomplishing the mission
   of the Agency from sources outside the Agency.

   2312.2. In order to be considered valid, an unsolicited proposal shall meet
   the following criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	It must be innovative and unique;
   
   
   
   (b)	It must have been independently originated and developed by the offeror;
   
   
   
   (c)	It must have been prepared without advice or supervision by any member of
   the Board or employee of the Agency;
   
   
   
   (d)	It must include sufficient detail to permit a determination that Agency
   support would be worthwhile; and
   
   
   
   (e)	It must show that the proposed work could benefit the mission of the
   Agency.

   2312.3. Unsolicited proposals shall contain the following information to
   permit consideration in an objective and timely manner:
   
   
   
   (a)	The offeror&#8217;s name and address and type of organization, such as
   profit, non-profit, educational, or certified minority business;
   
   
   
   (b)	The names and telephone numbers of technical and business personnel to be
   contacted for evaluation or negotiation purposes;
   
   
   
   (c)	The identity of proprietary data to be used only for evaluation purposes;
   
   
   
   (d)	The signature of a person authorized to represent and obligate
   contractually the offeror;
   
   
   
   (e)	The proposed price or total estimated cost for the effort in sufficient
   detail for meaningful evaluation;
   
   
   
   (f)	The period of time for which the proposal is valid;
   
   
   
   (g)	The type of contract preferred; and
   
   
   
   (h)	The proposed duration of effort.

   2312.4. The favorable evaluation of an unsolicited proposal shall not, by
   itself, justify award of a contract without competition. If the Agency decides
   to obtain the goods or services that have been offered in an unsolicited
   proposal, the contracting officer shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Issue an RFP for the goods or services offered in the proposal, in
   accordance with this chapter, and evaluate all proposals received in response
   to the RFP along with the unsolicited proposal; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Obtain from the Executive Director approval of a determination and
   findings for awarding the contract on a sole source basis.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6746 (September 22, 1989).
