                                  DC REGULATIONS

ACTIONS TAKEN BY AUTHORIZED RECEIVING FACILITY (§ 29-8302)

8302.1. When a newborn is surrendered to an authorized receiving facility, the
   facility shall make reasonable efforts to obtain family and medical history
   from the surrendering parent.  This information shall include personal
   information about the newborn and the surrendering parent, the identities and
   addresses of both parents, and information about the date, location and
   circumstances of the newborn’s birth.

   8302.2. The authorized receiving facility shall make reasonable efforts to
   obtain an acknowledgment from the surrendering parent that the surrendering
   parent is a District of Columbia resident and shall advise the surrendering
   parent that District residence is necessary for the newborn to be eligible for
   surrender under the Act.

   8302.3. The surrendering parent of a newborn eligible for surrender under the
   Act has the right to remain anonymous and to leave the authorized receiving
   facility at any time.  This parent shall not be pursued by any person at the
   time of surrender.

   8302.4. The authorized receiving facility shall make a reasonable effort to
   provide information on adoption and counseling services to the surrendering
   parent.

   8302.5. The authorized receiving facility receiving a newborn shall notify the
   Child and Family Services Agency (CFSA) that a newborn has been surrendered
   within one (1) hour after the surrender.  If the authorized receiving facility
   is unable to contact CFSA within one (1) hour of the surrender because of
   circumstances beyond its control, it shall contact CFSA as soon as possible.

   8302.6. The authorized receiving facility shall complete an authorized
   receiving facility report relating to the surrender as accurately and
   completely as possible.  At a minimum, the authorized receiving facility
   report shall be signed and dated and provide the following information:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The name of the employee receiving the surrendered newborn;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name of the authorized receiving facility;
   
   
   
   (c)	The date of the surrender;
   
   
   
   (d)	The time of the surrender;
   
   
   
   (e)	Family and medical information obtained, if any;
   
   
   
   (f)	Whether the surrendering parent acknowledged that he or she is a resident
   of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (g)	The circumstances of the surrender;
   
   
   
   (h)	The reason why a physician or the person receiving the newborn reasonably
   believes that the newborn is fourteen (14) days old or younger;
   
   
   
   (i)	Whether the parent was provided with information on adoption and
   counseling; and
   
   
   
   (j)	The reason, if any, as to why information on adoption and counseling was
   not provided to the parent.

   8302.7. If a newborn appears to have been abused or neglected or if the
   newborn is not eligible for surrender under the Act, the authorized receiving
   facility shall follow normal procedures for reporting abuse or neglect.

   8302.8. If a parent returns to the authorized receiving facility requesting
   return of the newborn, personnel shall advise the parent to contact CFSA’s
   Post Permanency Unit.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 8599
   (October 30, 2009)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 5967 (July 9, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 11742
   (December 10, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 58 DCR 8052, 8053 (September 16, 2011).
