                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICE OF PAPERS (ยง 3-404)

404.1. Any paper required to be served upon a party shall be served upon him
   or her or upon the representative designated by him or her or by law to
   receive service of papers.

   404.2. When a party has appeared through an attorney or agent, service shall
   be made upon the attorney or agent of record.

   404.3. Service may be made by personal delivery, by mail, by telegraph, or as
   otherwise authorized by law.

   404.4. Where there are numerous parties to a proceeding, the Board may make
   special provisions regarding the service of papers.

   404.5. Service upon a party shall be completed, as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	By personal delivery, on handing the paper to the person to be served, or
   leaving it at his or her office with his or her clerk or other person in
   charge or, if there is no one in charge, leaving it in a conspicuous place in
   the office; or, if the office is closed or the person to be served has no
   office, by leaving it at his or her usual place of residence with some person
   of suitable age and discretion then residing in that place;
   
   
   
   (b)	By telegraph, when deposited with a telegraph company properly addressed
   and with charges prepaid;
   
   
   
   (c)	By mail, on deposit in the United States mail, properly stamped and
   addressed; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Upon being served in the specific manner prescribed by an order of the
   Board made in any proceeding.

   404.6. Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom
   served and the manner and date of service, shall be shown for each document
   filed.

   404.7. Proof of service may be made by any of the following means:
   
   
   
   (a)	Written acknowledgment of the party served or his or her attorney of
   record;
   
   
   
   (b)	The certificate of the attorney of record if he or she has made the
   service; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The certificate of the person making the service.

   404.8. For the purposes of this chapter, the phrase &#8220;filing with the
   Board,&#8221; means the actual delivery to and physical receipt by the General
   Counsel to the Board of pleadings and other papers.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 45 D.C. Reg. 432, 435-36 (January 23,
   1998).
