                                  DC REGULATIONS

HEARING PROCEDURES[COLON] GENERAL (ยง 3-419)

419.1. The Chairperson shall have the authority to do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Regulate the course of the hearing;
   
   
   
   (b)	Rule upon offers of proof and receive relevant evidence;
   
   
   
   (c)	Assign exhibit numbers for all written documentary and other tangible
   matter offered in evidence;
   
   
   
   (d)	Dispose of procedural requests or similar matters, including motions to
   amend and to order hearings reopened;
   
   
   
   (e)	Rule upon motions to consolidate applications for hearing;
   
   
   
   (f)	Call, qualify, and examine witnesses;
   
   
   
   (g)	Introduce into the record documentary or other evidence;
   
   
   
   (h)	Request any party or person at any time during the hearing to state his or
   her respective position concerning any issues in the proceeding and theory in
   support of that position;
   
   
   
   (i)	Adjourn a hearing and establish the date when the hearing will be
   continued;
   
   
   
   (j)	Close a hearing;
   
   
   
   (k)	Rule upon the qualifications of witnesses offered as experts;
   
   
   
   (l)	Establish reasonable time limits for witnesses, and fairly allocate time
   among the parties and others;
   
   
   
   (m)	Exclude unduly repetitious or irrelevant testimony, and permit a witness
   to adopt the prior testimony of another witness; and
   
   
   
   (n)	Take any other action authorized by this title or that are necessary
   pursuant to this chapter.

   419.2. Witnesses before the Board shall be examined orally, under oath or
   affirmation, and any member of the Board may question any witness at any time
   during or after examination or cross-examination.

   419.3. The Board shall make available as witnesses for parties any current
   employees of the Board.

   419.4. At the conclusion of the oral hearings, the Board may require the
   parties to submit written statements of their positions.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 45 D.C. Reg. 432, 445-46 (January 23,
   1998).
