                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICE (ยง 17-3318)

3318.1. A notice, pleading, order, or decision required by this chapter to be
   served on a respondent shall be served on the respondent or representative
   designated by the respondent or by law to receive service of papers. If a
   respondent has appeared through counsel, service shall be made upon the
   counsel of record.

   3318.2. Service on a respondent shall be directed to the last known address of
   the respondent on file with the Director and shall be completed by one of the
   following;
   
   
   
   (a)	By certified mail, return receipt requested;
   
   
   
   (b)	By personal delivery;
   
   
   
   (c)	By delivery to the address of respondent, or respondent&#8217;s counsel or
   agent, on file with the Department, by leaving it at that address with a
   person of suitable discretion at least sixteen (16) years of age who is
   employed or resides at that address; or
   
   
   
   (d)	In conformity with an order of a board.

   3318.3. Service on the board, the Director, or the Corporation Counsel shall
   be directed to the appropriate office and shall be completed by one of the
   following methods:
   
   
   
   (a)	By certified mail, return receipt requested; or
   
   
   
   (b)	By personal delivery.

   3318.4. Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom
   service is made and the manner and date of service, shall be shown by one of
   the following methods:
   
   
   
   (a)	If service was effected by certified mail, the return receipt indicating
   that the document was accepted, refused, or returned unclaimed;
   
   
   
   (b)	If service was effected by personal delivery, the certificate of the
   server indicating that the document was accepted or refused; or
   
   
   
   (c)	If service was effected pursuant to an order of the board, in the manner
   provided in that order.

   3318.5. The date and time of service shall be established as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	If service is effected by certified mail, it shall be deemed to have been
   served on the date and at the time shown on the return receipt that the
   document was accepted, refused, or returned unclaimed;
   
   
   
   (b)	If service was effected by personal delivery, it shall be deemed to have
   been served on the date and at the time on the certificate of service
   indicating that the document was accepted or refused; or
   
   
   
   (c)	If service was effected pursuant to an order of a board, it shall be
   deemed to have been served on a date and at a time as provided in that order.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3488, 3502 (May 13, 1988).
