                                  DC REGULATIONS

EVIDENCE AT THE HEARING (ยง 17-3324)

3324.1. All testimony at a hearing before a board shall be under oath or
   affirmation.

   3324.2. If any part of the record in any other proceeding previously held
   before a board, or part of the record in any criminal or civil action,
   including hearings before any administrative agency, is offered in evidence, a
   certified true copy of that part shall be presented to the board in the form
   of an exhibit, unless either of the following requirements is satisfied:
   
   
   
   (a)	The record is specified in such manner as to be readily identified, and
   the person offering the record agrees to supply copies later or when required
   by a board; or
   
   
   
   (b)	There is a stipulation that the record may be incorporated by reference
   and a board orders that incorporation.

   3324.3. A board shall exclude irrelevant, immaterial, and unduly repetitious
   evidence.

   3324.4. A board may take official notice, at the request of a party or on its
   own motion, of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The law and rules of the District of Columbia, the United States, or any
   state or other jurisdiction of the United States; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Material facts in the official files of a board, the Department, or other
   District of Columbia or federal agency; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A fact that is not subject to reasonable dispute in that it is generally
   known within the District of Columbia or is capable of accurate and ready
   determination by resort to resources the accuracy of which cannot reasonably
   be requested.

   3324.5. If a board takes official notice of a material fact not appearing in
   the evidence in the record, it shall give a party the opportunity to show the
   contrary at the hearing or on motion made within five (5) days after the
   hearing.

   3324.6. The parties may, by stipulation in writing filed with a board, agree
   on the facts or any portion thereof involved in a hearing. The parties may
   also stipulate the testimony that would be given by a witness if the witness
   were present.

   3324.7. The board may require additional evidence concerning any matter
   covered by a stipulation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3488, 3507 (May 13, 1988).
