                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE OF INTENDED ACTION AND OPPORTUNITY FOR A HEARING (§ 17-3315)

3315.1. A board shall give the holder of, or applicant for, a license (except
   a temporary license) or a person possessing a privilege to practice in the
   District, notice of and an opportunity for a hearing before the board if the
   effect of the action would be one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	To revoke a license, certificate, registration, or privilege;
   
   
   
   (b)	To suspend a license, certificate, registration, or privilege;
   
   
   
   (c)	To reprimand the holder of a license, certificate, registration, or
   privilege;
   
   
   
   (d)	To impose a civil fine;
   
   
   
   (e)	To require a course of remediation;
   
   
   
   (f)	To require a period of probation; or
   
   
   
   (g)	To refuse to renew a license, certificate, or registration for any cause
   other than failure to pay the required renewal fee.

   3315.2. If a board proposes to take an action of the type set forth in §
   3315.1, it shall give written notice to the respondent containing the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement that a board has sufficient evidence, setting forth the nature
   of the evidence, which, if not explained, justifies taking the proposed
   action;
   
   
   
   (b)	One of the following statements:
   
   
   
   (1)	That the board may take the proposed action, unless the respondent
   requests a hearing before the board by a letter addressed to the board, sent
   by certified mail or delivered in person, within twenty (20) days after
   service of the notice, and that the board may take the proposed action if the
   respondent fails to appear at the scheduled hearing; or
   
   
   
   (2)	That the board has scheduled a hearing on the proposed action, setting
   forth the date, time, and place of the hearing, and that the board may take
   the proposed action if the respondent fails to appear at the hearing:
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of the rights of the respondent at a hearing as specified in
   § 3323.3.

   3315.3. Subject to § 3315.4, a board shall give an applicant for a license
   (other than a temporary license) notice of and an opportunity for a hearing
   before the board if the effect of the action would be one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	To deny permission to take an examination; or
   
   
   
   (b)	To deny a license.

   3315.4. An applicant shall not be entitled to notice of or an opportunity for
   a hearing before a board if the denial of a license or permission to take an
   examination is based solely on the applicant&#8217;s failure to meet a
   qualification over which a board has no discretion, including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Failure to meet a minimum age requirement;
   
   
   
   (b)	Failure to meet an educational or experience requirement where the
   acceptability of the educational program or quality of the experience is not
   an issue; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Failure to pass an examination.

   3315.5. If a board proposes to take an action of the type specified in §
   3315.3, it shall give written notice to the respondent containing the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement that the respondent has failed to satisfy a board as to the
   respondent&#8217;s qualifications to take the examination or to be approved
   for licensure;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement that specifies in what respect the respondent has failed to
   satisfy a board;
   
   
   
   (c)	One of the following statements:
   
   
   
   (1)	That the board may take the proposed action, unless the respondent
   requests a hearing before the board by a letter addressed to the board, sent
   by certified mail or delivered in person, within twenty (20) days after
   service of the notice, and that the board may take the proposed action if the
   respondent fails to appear at a scheduled hearing; or
   
   
   
   (2)	That the board has scheduled a hearing on the proposed action, setting
   forth the date, time, and place of the hearing, and that the board may take
   the proposed action if the respondent fails to appear at the hearing; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A description of the rights of the respondent at a hearing as specified in
   § 3323.2.

   3315.6. A notice given pursuant to § 3315.2 shall be in the form of charges
   and specifications. A notice given pursuant to § 3315.5 shall be in the form
   of a notice of intent to deny in letter format.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3489, 3499 (May 13, 1988).
