                                  DC REGULATIONS

CHEATING ON AN EXAMINATION (ยง 17-3303)

3303.1. No person shall cheat or assist another in cheating on an examination
   required by an Act listed in ยง 3300.1 or rules promulgated pursuant thereto.

   3303.2. As used in this section, &#8220;cheating&#8221; includes, but is not
   limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Communication relating to the examination between applicants inside or
   outside of an examination room or copying another applicant&#8217;s answers
   while an examination is in progress;
   
   
   
   (b)	Communication relating to an examination with others outside of an
   examination room while the examination is in progress;
   
   
   
   (c)	Substitution by an applicant of another person to sit in an examination
   room in the applicant&#8217;s place; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Use of crib sheets, text books, or other materials not authorized by a
   board inside or outside an examination room while an examination is in
   progress.

   3303.3. If a person designated to proctor an examination suspects that an
   applicant is cheating or has cheated on the examination, the person shall do
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	If necessary, seat the applicant in a segregated location for the
   remainder of the examination;
   
   
   
   (b)	Keep a record of the applicant&#8217;s seat location and identification
   number, and the names and identification numbers of the applicants on either
   side of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (c)	Confiscate any materials or devices that are suspected of being used by
   the applicant to cheat on the examination;
   
   
   
   (d)	Permit the applicant to complete the examination; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Notify the testing service, the board, and the Director that the applicant
   is suspected of cheating and provide a board with a copy of the examination
   booklet and any evidence obtained by the person proctoring the examination.

   3303.4. If a board has cause to believe that an applicant has cheated or has
   failed to comply with an instruction of a proctor given pursuant to ยง 3303.3,
   it may propose to deny a license, impose a civil fine, or take other actions
   under this chapter.

   3303.5. If a board determines that an applicant cheated on an examination, in
   addition to any other consequences, the applicant shall not be eligible to
   take another examination for a period of one (1) year from the date of the
   decision of a board, or other period established by a board in its order.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3488, 3491 (May 13, 1988).
