                                  DC REGULATIONS

SELF-INSURERS (§ 18-807)

807.1. Any person in whose name twenty-six (26) or more motor vehicles are
   registered in the District may qualify as a self-insurer by applying to the
   Director for a certificate of self-insurance.

   807.2. The Director shall require that the applicant furnish a financial
   statement and other pertinent information on a form prescribed by the
   Director.

   807.3. If the Director is satisfied that the applicant has and will continue
   to have the ability to pay benefits in the amounts specified by the Act, the
   Director may issue a certificate authorizing that person to act as a
   self-insurer for property damage, for bodily injury, or for personal injury
   protection benefits.

   807.4. For the purpose of satisfying the requirements of the Act and the
   No-Fault Insurance Act, each self-insurer approved by the Director shall file
   an agreement that, with respect to accidents occurring while the certificate
   of self-insurance is in effect, the self-insurer will pay the same monetary
   amounts that an insurance company would have been obliged to pay under an
   owner’s motor vehicle insurance policy if an insurance company had issued a
   motor vehicle insurance policy to the insurer.

   807.5. A certificate of self-insurance shall be effective for a period of one
   (1) year from the date of issuance.

   807.6. After not less than five (5) days notice and a hearing, if requested,
   pursuant to that notice, the Director may revoke a certificate of
   self-insurance for any reasonable grounds including, but not limited to, the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Failure to pay any required benefits within thirty (30) days after the
   notice of injury:
   
   
   
   (b)	Failure to own and register the required number of motor vehicles;
   
   
   
   (c)	Financial inability of the self-insurer;
   
   
   
   (d)	Failure of the self-insurer to pay an assessment levied pursuant to the
   No-Fault Act and rules issued by the Superintendent of Insurance; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Failure to comply with all District laws applicable to self-insurers.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: &#8212; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 5243, 5247
   (June 18, 2010).
