                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (§ 18-805)

805.1. Whenever any person is required to give proof of financial
   responsibility, that person shall give proof for each and every motor vehicle
   of which that person is the owner or in which that person has or will acquire
   an ownership interest.

   805.2. For purposes of the Act, the requirement to submit proof of financial
   responsibility shall be satisfied by submission of a form customarily used by
   the insurance industry for that purpose including, but not limited to, the
   SR-22.

   805.3. A requirement of proof of financial responsibility shall remain in
   effect from the date ordered until the person requests that the Director
   cancel the requirement of proof of financial responsibility and under any one
   of the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	A period of three (3) years has expired from the date the proof of
   financial responsibility was required and the person has given the Director
   evidence satisfactory to the Director of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	That the person has not been convicted of, or forfeited bail on, an
   offense which is listed in §§ 37 or 39 of the Act;
   
   
   
   (2)	That there is no pending action for damages based upon a liability action
   which is covered by the proof of financial responsibility;
   
   
   
   (3)	That there is no unsatisfied judgment based upon a liability action which
   is covered by the proof of financial responsibility; and
   
   
   
   (4)	That the person has not been involved within one (1) year immediately
   preceding the request for cancellation, in any motor vehicle accident
   resulting in injury to any person or damage to property of any person;
   
   
   
   (b)	The person required to furnish the proof of financial responsibility has
   died;
   
   
   
   (c)	The person required to furnish the proof of financial responsibility has
   become permanently incapacitated and has surrendered his or her license. The
   permanent incapacity of the person required to furnish the proof shall be
   proven by the certification of at least two (2) physicians licensed to
   practice medicine in the District of Columbia, or, in the case of a
   nonresident, two (2) physicians licensed in the District of Columbia or in the
   state in which the nonresident resides; or
   
   
   
   (d)	The person required to furnish the proof of financial responsibility shall
   surrender his or her license and registration to the Director. If that person
   applies for a license or registration within three (3) years from the date the
   proof of financial responsibility is required, the license or registration
   shall be denied unless that person furnishes proof of financial responsibility
   for the remainder of the three (3) year period.

   805.4. In the case of an insurance company not authorized to do business in
   the District of Columbia whose insured is not a resident of the District or
   the vehicle insured is not registered in the District, the company shall meet
   the requirements of § 55 of the Act.

   805.5. A certificate of financial responsibility shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The full name and address of the insured;
   
   
   
   (b)	The policy number and effective dates of the insurance policy;
   
   
   
   (c)	The operator’s license number of the insured; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A designation by explicit description or by appropriate reference of all
   vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby granted.

   805.6. Whenever a change of coverage is required, a notice of the change of
   coverage shall be filed with the Director. That notice shall contain all the
   information described in § 805.5 with respect to the original insurance
   certificate.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 758 (Jun 17, 2005).
