                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPERVISED PRACTICE OF GRADUATES (ยง 17-6015)

6015.1. A graduate may practice as a clinical nurse specialist only in
   accordance with the Act and this chapter.

   6015.2. An individual shall be authorized to engage in the supervised practice
   as a clinical nurse specialist as a graduate clinical nurse specialist,
   without a District of Columbia certificate if the individual:
   
   
   
   (a)	Graduated from a post-basic nursing education program for clinical nurse
   specialists approved by the ANCC or other certifying body approved by the
   Board;
   
   
   
   (b)	Is awaiting the results of the certification examination given by the ANCC
   or other certifying body approved by the Board; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Has an initial application pending for certification to practice as a
   clinical nurse specialist in the District of Columbia.

   6015.3. A person who has been denied a certificate, denied a license,
   disciplined, convicted of an offense that bears directly upon his or her
   fitness to be licensed, or who has such an action pending in the District of
   Columbia or another jurisdiction shall not practice pursuant to this section
   unless first authorized by the Board in writing.

   6015.4. Within five (5) business days after the application for certification
   has been received by the Board&#8217;s staff, the Board&#8217;s staff shall,
   at the request of the applicant, issue a supervised practice letter to the
   applicant to document that his or her application is pending and that he or
   she is authorized to practice under the Act and this chapter. The practice
   letter is not renewable and shall expire:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ninety (90) days from the date of issuance;
   
   
   
   (b)	Upon receipt of written notice to the applicant of denial of
   certification;
   
   
   
   (c)	Upon receipt of notice to the applicant that the applicant has failed the
   certification examination; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Upon receipt of written notice to the applicant from the Board that the
   application for certification has been denied, whichever date is the earliest.

   6015.5. Upon receipt of the practice letter, the graduate shall inform
   employers of the date of expiration of the letter and shall immediately cease
   practice as a clinical nurse specialist on that date or upon receipt of
   written notice as set forth in ยง 6015.4, whichever date is the earliest. The
   graduate thereafter may practice in any other area for which the graduate is
   qualified and licensed in the District, until receipt of a certificate to
   practice as a clinical nurse specialist in the District.

   6015.6. The graduate shall immediately notify the Board and the
   graduate&#8217;s supervisor of the results of the certification examination.

   6015.7. Only a clinical nurse specialist certified under the Act, who is a
   supervisor, shall be authorized to supervise the practice of a clinical nurse
   specialist by a graduate.

   6015.8. A supervisor shall not supervise more than two (2) graduates at one
   time.

   6015.9. All supervised practice of a graduate shall take place under general
   or immediate supervision.

   6015.10. A graduate who practices pursuant to this section shall only practice
   at a hospital, long-term care facility, a health facility operated by the
   District or federal government, or other health care facility considered
   appropriate by the Board.

   6015.11. A graduate under this section shall not assume administrative or
   technical responsibility for the operation of a clinical nurse specialist
   program, unit, service, or institution.

   6015.12. A graduate shall identify himself or herself as such before
   practicing as a nurse practitioner. A graduate shall wear a picture
   identification badge with lettering clearly visible to the client bearing the
   name of the graduate and the position.

   6015.13. A graduate shall not receive compensation of any nature, directly or
   indirectly, from a client or client&#8217;s family member, except for a salary
   based on hours worked under supervision.

   6015.14. The supervisor shall be fully responsible for all practice by a
   graduate during the period of supervision and is subject to disciplinary
   action for any violation of the Act or this chapter by the graduate.

   6015.15. The Board may deny an application for a certificate by, or take other
   disciplinary action against, a graduate who is found to have violated the Act
   or this chapter. The Board may, in addition to any other disciplinary actions
   permitted by the Act, revoke, suspend, or restrict the privilege of the
   graduate to practice.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 7228 (July 23, 2004).
