                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPERVISED PRACTICE OF APPLICANTS FOR CERTIFICATION BY ENDORSEMENT (ยง 17-6016)

6016.1. An applicant may practice as a clinical nurse specialist only in
   accordance with the Act and this chapter.

   6016.2. An applicant for certification by endorsement shall be authorized to
   engage in the supervised practice as a clinical nurse specialist in the
   District of Columbia without a District of Columbia certificate if the
   applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is currently certified by the ANCC or a certifying body approved by the
   Board;
   
   
   
   (b)	Is currently licensed, in good standing, under the laws of a state or
   territory of the United States; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Has an initial application pending for certification by endorsement to
   practice as a clinical nurse specialist in the District of Columbia.

   6016.3. A person who has been denied a certificate, denied a license,
   disciplined, convicted of an offense that bears directly upon his or her
   fitness to be licensed, or who has such an action pending in the District of
   Columbia or another jurisdiction shall not practice pursuant to this section
   unless first authorized by the Board in writing.

   6016.4. Within five (5) business days after the application for certification
   by endorsement has been received by the Board&#8217;s staff, the Board&#8217;s
   staff shall issue a practice letter to the applicant to document that his or
   her application is pending and that he or she is eligible to practice under
   the Act and this chapter. The practice letter is not renewable and shall
   expire:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ninety (90) days from the date of issuance; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Upon receipt of written notice from the Board that the application for
   certification has been denied, whichever date is the earliest.

   6016.5. Upon receipt of the practice letter, the applicant shall inform
   employers of the date of expiration of the letter and shall immediately cease
   practice as a clinical nurse specialist on that date or upon receipt of
   written notice as set forth in ยง 6015.4, whichever date is the earliest. The
   applicant thereafter may practice in any other area for which the applicant is
   qualified and licensed in the District, until receipt of a certificate to
   practice as a clinical nurse specialist in the District.

   6016.6. Only a clinical nurse specialist certified under the Act, who is a
   supervisor, shall be authorized to supervise the practice of a clinical nurse
   specialist by an applicant.

   6016.7. A supervisor shall not supervise more than two (2) applicants at one
   time.

   6016.8. All supervised practice of an applicant shall take place under general
   or immediate supervision.

   6016.9. An applicant who practices pursuant to this section shall only
   practice at a hospital, long-term care facility, a health facility operated by
   the District or federal government, or other health care facility considered
   appropriate by the Board.

   6016.10. An applicant under this section shall not assume administrative or
   technical responsibility for the operation of a clinical nurse specialist
   program, unit, service, or institution.

   6016.11. An applicant shall not receive compensation of any nature, directly
   or indirectly, from a client or client&#8217;s family member, except for a
   salary based on hours worked under supervision.

   6016.12. The supervisor shall be fully responsible for all practice by an
   applicant during the period of supervision and is subject to disciplinary
   action for any violation of the Act or this chapter by the applicant.

   6016.13. The Board may deny an application for a certificate by, or take other
   disciplinary action against, an applicant who is found to have violated the
   Act or this chapter. The Board may, in addition to any other disciplinary
   actions permitted by the Act, revoke, suspend, or restrict the privilege of
   the applicant to practice.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 7228 (July 23, 2004).
