                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPERVISED PRACTICE OF STUDENTS (ยง 17-6014)

6014.1. A student may practice as a clinical nurse specialist only in
   accordance with the Act and this chapter.

   6014.2. A student fulfilling education requirements for certification and
   practicing within the limitations set forth in ยง 103(c) of the Act, D.C.
   Official Code ยง 3-1201.03(c), shall be authorized to engage in the supervised
   practice as a clinical nurse specialist without a District of Columbia
   certificate.

   6014.3. A person who has been denied a certificate, denied a license,
   disciplined, convicted of an offense that bears directly upon his or her
   fitness to be licensed, or who has such an action pending in the District of
   Columbia or another jurisdiction shall not practice pursuant to this section
   unless first authorized by the Board in writing.

   6014.4. Only a clinical nurse specialist certified under the Act, who is an
   appointed faculty member of the accredited school or college, or a preceptor
   meeting the requirements set forth in chapter 56 of this Title, shall be
   authorized to supervise the practice of a clinical nurse specialist by a
   student.

   6014.5. A student who practices pursuant to this section shall only practice
   at a hospital, long-term care facility, a health facility operated by the
   District or federal government, or other health care facility considered
   appropriate by the ANCC or other certifying body approved by the Board.

   6014.6. All supervised practice of a student shall take place under general or
   immediate supervision.

   6014.7. A student under this section shall not assume administrative or
   technical responsibility for the operation of a clinical nurse specialist
   program, unit, service, or institution.

   6014.8. A student shall identify himself or herself as such before practicing
   as a nurse practitioner. A student shall wear a picture identification badge
   with lettering clearly visible to the client bearing the name of the student
   and the position title.

   6014.9. A student shall not receive compensation of any nature, directly or
   indirectly, from a client or client&#8217;s family member.

   6014.10. The supervisor or preceptor, as applicable, shall be fully
   responsible for the practice by a student during the period of supervision and
   may be subject to disciplinary action for violations of the Act or this
   chapter by the student.

   6014.11. The Board may deny an application for a certificate by, or take other
   disciplinary action against, a student who is found to have violated the Act
   or this chapter. The Board may, in addition to any other disciplinary actions
   permitted by the Act, revoke, suspend, or restrict the privilege of the
   student to practice.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 7228 (July 23, 2004).
