                                  DC REGULATIONS

NATIONAL EXAMINATION AND CERTIFICATION (ยง 17-6005)

6005.1. In addition to the requirements in ยง 6001 and ยง 6004, to qualify for
   a certificate to practice as a clinical nurse specialist in the District of
   Columbia, an applicant shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be currently certified as a clinical nurse specialist by the American
   Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) or any nationally recognized certifying
   body accepted by the Board; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit evidence indicating satisfactory completion of at least a three (3)
   credit hour pharmacology and clinical management of drug therapy or
   pharmacotherapeutics course, or completion of at least a thirty (30) contact
   hour pharmacology and clinical management of drug therapeutics course or
   pharmacotherapeutics course within the last five (5) years as it relates to
   the clinical nurse specialists&#8217; scope of practice.

   6005.2. An applicant shall submit proof of having obtained a passing score on
   the ANCC certification examination by arranging to have official written
   certification of the certified copy of the examination results, sent to the
   Board.

   6005.3. A national certification program acceptable to the Board shall
   provide:
   
   
   
   (a)	A scope of practice statement that reflects the standards of specialized
   and advanced nursing practice the area of certification;
   
   
   
   (b)	An approval process for the formal programs of study in the area of
   certification which shall:
   
   
   
   (1)	Be based on measurable objectives that relate directly to the scope of
   practice;
   
   
   
   (2)	Include theoretical and clinical content directed to the objectives; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Be equivalent to at least one academic year preceptorship which is part of
   the formal program and shall be included as part of the academic year. Current
   practice in the area of certification will not be accepted as a substitute for
   the formal program of study.
   
   
   
   (c)	An examination in the area of certification which shall:
   
   
   
   (1)	Measure the theoretical and clinical content denoted in the score of
   practice;
   
   
   
   (2)	Be developed in accordance with generally accepted standards of validity
   and reliability; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Be opened only to registered nurses who have successfully completed the
   program of study referred to in paragraph (b) of this section.
   
   
   
   (d)	A certification maintenance program.

   6005.4. The passing score on the certification examination shall be the
   passing score established by the certifying body administering the
   examination.

   6005.5. The Board shall issue and update a list of nationally recognized
   certifying bodies accepted by the Board.

   6005.6. Failure to maintain recertification as a clinical nurse specialist
   shall result in the loss of license status as a clinical nurse specialist.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 11771 (December 27, 2002); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 3129 (March 25, 2005); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 3129 (March 25, 2005).
