                                  DC REGULATIONS

ENTRIES FOR RESPONSE OR CORRECTIVE ACTION (§ 20-4303)

4303.1. In the event of a spill or release of hazardous waste, used oil, or
   regulated medical waste, or an alleged violation of the laws and rules listed
   in § 4300, the Director may, under the following circumstances, enter upon
   any place or vehicle to perform, or cause to be performed, any response or
   corrective action necessary to protect human health or the environment:
   
   
   
   (a)	In a situation that requires immediate action by the Director to protect
   human health or the environment;
   
   
   
   (b)	Where the person responsible for the spill, release, or alleged violation
   has failed or refused to comply with an administrative or court order
   requiring response or corrective action; or
   
   
   
   (c)	As authorized under § 3 of the Illegal Dumping Enforcement Act, effective
   May 20, 1994, as amended (D.C. Law 10-117; D.C. Official Code § 8-902(f) and
   (h) (2001)), where a person has failed to abate a nuisance resulting from
   violation of the Illegal Dumping Enforcement Act.

   4303.2. Except as provided in § 4303.4, the Director shall provide written
   notice of the Director&#8217;s intent to enter the premises or vehicle to take
   response or corrective action to the owner or operator at least seven (7) days
   before commencing work, and shall serve the notice personally or by certified
   mail, or where personal service cannot be accomplished, by publication or
   posting.

   4303.3. Except as provided in § 4303.4, when the owner or operator is a
   domestic corporation, any notice to be served pursuant to this section, if
   served upon the president, treasurer, any other principal officer, general
   manager, or registered agent of the corporation in the manner specified in §
   4303.2, shall be deemed to have been served upon the corporation. If the owner
   or operator is a foreign corporation, service upon the registered agent of the
   corporation shall be deemed service upon the corporation.

   4303.4. When a spill or release of hazardous waste, used oil, or regulated
   medical waste, or an alleged violation of the laws and rules listed in §
   4300, creates an imminent threat to human health or the environment
   necessitating response or corrective action, and the emergency nature of the
   situation makes it impractical to give prior notice as specified in §§
   4303.2 and 4303.3, the Director may provide notice by conspicuously posting
   the notice on the property at the earliest time feasible, before commencing
   work.

   4303.5. Except as provided in § 4303.4, the written notice of intent to begin
   response or corrective action shall contain the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the owner or operator of the premises or vehicle;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name and address of the person to whom the notice is directed;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement of the authority under which the Director is taking response
   or corrective action;
   
   
   
   (d)	A description of the location where the work will take place;
   
   
   
   (e)	A brief summary of the response or corrective actions to be taken, and the
   conditions that require response or corrective action;
   
   
   
   (f)	Notice of any applicable hearing rights, if such notice has not already
   been served;
   
   
   
   (g)	A statement that the Director will pursue cost recovery against the
   responsible person pursuant to § 4314 for:
   
   
   
   (1)	All response and corrective action costs, related expenses, and interest;
   or,
   
   
   
   (2)	In the case of violations of the Illegal Dumping Enforcement Act, pursuant
   to D.C. Official Code § 8-902(f), three (3) times the cost and expense of
   abating the nuisance, preventing recurrence of the violation, cleaning and
   clearing the site where the unlawful disposal occurred, and properly disposing
   of the waste;
   
   
   
   (h)	The name, position, office address, telephone and fax numbers, and e-mail
   address of the Department employee issuing the notice, and the name and
   telephone number of the appropriate contact individual within the Department;
   and
   
   
   
   (i)	The signature of the Director or his or her designee.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 9653 (October 28, 2005); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 5586 (June 8, 2007).
