                                  DC REGULATIONS

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS AND CONSENT COMPLIANCE ORDERS (ยง 20-4315)

4315.1. At any time during the course of administrative or judicial
   enforcement proceedings, the parties to the proceeding may enter into a
   settlement agreement and/or consent compliance order.

   4315.2. A settlement agreement or consent compliance order, including a
   consent compliance decree, shall set forth each of the agreements made,
   actions to be taken by the parties to the agreement, the dates by which any
   required actions must be undertaken or completed; and any agreed-upon fines,
   penalties, cost recovery, damages, attorney&#8217;s fees, costs and expenses,
   interest, supplemental environmental project, or any other sanction or remedy
   authorized by law.

   4315.3. Where a party proposes a supplemental environmental project, the
   project shall meet the following criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	The project shall be directly related to preventing or correcting the
   problems that led to the violation;
   
   
   
   (b)	The project shall incorporate pollution prevention practices, including
   source reduction and waste minimization;
   
   
   
   (c)	The project, when it involves capital improvements, new pollution control
   equipment, or employee training for the facility in question, shall exceed
   minimum legal requirements;
   
   
   
   (d)	The party shall demonstrate the financial and technical ability to
   successfully complete the project;
   
   
   
   (e)	The party shall demonstrate good faith in correcting the violation and a
   willingness to change the party&#8217;s course of conduct;
   
   
   
   (f)	The project shall not delay or frustrate compliance with regulatory or
   permit requirements;
   
   
   
   (g)	The total settlement value, including the value of the supplemental
   environmental project, shall reflect the full value of the penalties, damages,
   and cost recovery that would be otherwise imposed;
   
   
   
   (h)	The monetary component of the settlement shall fully compensate the
   District of Columbia for any damages, costs, and expenses incurred in
   connection with the violation; and
   
   
   
   (i)	To avoid rewarding noncompliance, the proposed supplemental environmental
   project shall create greater benefits for the public than economic benefits
   for the settling party.

   4315.4. A settlement agreement shall be effective when signed by the parties
   thereto, and shall not require the signature of an OAH administrative law
   judge or a judge to become effective or to be filed in the case.

   4315.5. A settlement agreement may be submitted to OAH or the court for
   approval.

   4315.6. The parties may enter into a consent compliance order with the
   approval of the OAH or the court.

   4315.7. A consent compliance order shall be signed by the parties to the case
   and by the administrative law judge or the judge, and shall have the force and
   effect of any final administrative or judicial order.

   4315.8. Unless the consent compliance order states otherwise, there shall be
   no right of appeal from a consent compliance order.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 9653 (October 28, 2005).
