                                  DC REGULATIONS

ENTRIES FOR INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING (§ 20-4302)

4302.1. Upon entry, the Director may do any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Inspect the place or vehicle where the hazardous waste, used oil, or
   regulated medical waste is or was located, or will be located, and any
   surrounding areas that may be impacted;
   
   
   
   (b)	Inspect and obtain samples of any hazardous waste, used oil, or regulated
   medical waste, or of any substance or thing used in handling, transporting,
   treating, storing, or disposing of the waste or used oil; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Inspect and copy any records, reports, information, test results, or other
   documents relating to the purpose of the laws and rules listed in § 4300.

   4302.2. If the Director obtains any samples from the premises or the vehicle,
   the Director shall give the owner, operator, or agent in charge a receipt that
   describes the samples obtained, and, if requested, a portion of each sample
   equal in volume or weight to the portion obtained. If any analysis is made of
   the samples, the Director shall promptly furnish the owner, operator, or agent
   in charge a copy of the results of the analysis made of the samples.

   4302.3. In addition to the information required to be produced during an
   inspection pursuant to § 4302.1(c) the Director may require in writing that a
   generator, transporter, owner or operator of a regulated facility, or other
   person handling hazardous waste, used oil, or regulated medical waste provide
   any document, respond to specific questions, or provide other information with
   respect to any of the wastes or used oil, or the handling of the wastes or
   used oil, as may be necessary to determine compliance with the laws and rules
   listed in § 4300.

   4302.4. When the Director makes a written request for any document, response
   to specific questions, or other information pursuant to § 4302.3, the
   documents, responses, or other information shall be submitted to the Director
   within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the request, unless the Director
   specifies a different time period.

   4302.5. The Director may require a generator, transporter, owner or operator
   of a regulated facility, or any other responsible person to take any necessary
   response or corrective action, including monitoring or testing, in accordance
   with the requirements of the laws and rules listed in § 4300.

   4302.6. When requiring a responsible person to take action pursuant to this
   chapter, the Director may, in addition to any other enforcement action
   authorized by law, issue a field notice or directive letter, that shall advise
   the responsible person of the action the person is required to take and state
   the time period within which the action must be performed.

   4302.7. Notwithstanding § 4302.6, the Director may give an oral directive to
   a responsible person to cease and desist from an activity in a situation where
   there is potential serious danger to human health or the environment, or to
   take immediate action to mitigate any hazard from a spill or release;
   provided, that the Director shall, as soon thereafter as practicable, issue a
   written directive incorporating the contents of the oral directive.

   4302.8. When dangerous chemicals, hazardous wastes, used oil, or regulated
   medical waste on a property pose an imminent threat to human health or the
   environment, the Director may post notice of the threat on the property and
   restrict access. The posting shall provide the public with notice that a
   dangerous condition exists, and shall prohibit the owner, operator, and agent
   in charge from removing or handling the chemicals or the waste without prior
   approval from the Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 9653 (October 28, 2005).
