                                  DC REGULATIONS

CLAIMS FOR RECOGNITION OF EXEMPTION FROM RENT STABILIZATION PROGRAM (§ 14-4106)

4106.1. Each housing provider who claims a rental unit is exempt from the Rent
   Stabilization Program of the Act shall file a Registration/Claim of Exemption
   form with the Rent Administrator.

   4106.2. Each claim of exemption shall contain a properly executed oath or
   affirmation by the housing provider that the claim is valid.

   4106.3. A claim of exemption containing a properly executed oath or
   affirmation of the housing provider shall be deemed approved upon filing with
   the Rent Administrator.

   4106.4. The Rent Administrator may initiate a review of a claim of exemption
   at any time; and a review may be initiated upon motion of a party to a
   petition.

   4106.5. The Rent Administrator may request supporting documentation to
   substantiate a claim of exemption.

   4106.6. Failure to file or failure to provide accurate information in
   accordance with the Act and this subtitle, may result in the denial of the
   claim of exemption and/or the imposition of other penalties and sanctions.

   4106.7. Claims of exemption found to contain defects may be corrected by the
   housing provider in accordance with § 4104.

   4106.8. Prior to the execution of a lease or other rental agreement, a
   prospective tenant of any unit exempted under § 205(a) of the Act shall
   receive from the housing provider a written notice advising the prospective
   tenant that rent increases for the housing accommodation are not regulated by
   the rent stabilization program.

   4106.9. The Rent Administrator shall approve a claim of exemption under §
   205(a)(1) of the Act, where a housing accommodation or rental unit is owned by
   the federal or District of Columbia government.

   4106.10. The Rent Administrator shall approve a claim of exemption under §
   205(a)(1) of the Act, where a housing accommodation or rental unit is enrolled
   in a formal program of the federal or District of Columbia government under
   which the operating expenses or mortgage are subsidized and the rents charged
   the tenant(s) are determined and regulated by formula.

   4106.11. The Rent Administrator shall approve a claim of exemption under §
   205(a)(2) of the Act, where the rental unit for which exemption is claimed
   meets the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is in a housing accommodation for which the building permit was issued
   after December 31, 1975;
   
   
   
   (b)	Is in an addition to a housing accommodation converted from
   non-residential space, and was covered by a Certificate of Occupancy for
   housing use issued after January 1, 1980; and as to subsections (a) and (b) of
   this section; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The claim for exemption is accompanied by a certification that where the
   construction of the housing accommodation required the demolition of an
   existing housing accommodation subject to this Act, the number of newly
   constructed rental units exceeds the number of demolished rental units.

   4106.12. The Rent Administrator shall approve a claim of exemption under §
   205(a)(3) of the Act, if it meets the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Where the rental unit for which exemption is claimed is owned by an
   individual who has an interest with no more than three (3) other natural
   persons in four (4) or fewer rental units;
   
   
   
   (b)	Where the exemption includes an affirmation that the claim is valid;
   
   
   
   (c)	Where the exemption includes the name and address of each person having a
   direct or indirect interest in the rental unit; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Where the exemption includes the addresses of all other housing
   accommodations or rental units located in the District of Columbia in which
   the owners, individually or collectively, have a direct or indirect interest,
   and the number of rental units in each housing accommodation.

   4106.13. The Rent Administrator shall disapprove a claim of exemption under §
   205(a)(3) of the Act, where the rental unit for which exemption is claimed is
   one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	If it is owned in whole or in part by a partnership or corporation, except
   as authorized by § 4107 of this subtitle or § 205 (a)(3)(d) of the Act;
   
   
   
   (b)	If it is owned by five (5) or more individuals; or
   
   
   
   (c)	If it is owned in whole or in part by any individual who has an ownership
   interest, direct or indirect, in five (5) or more rental units, whether in the
   same structure or in different structures.

   4106.14. A housing accommodation shall be exempt under § 205(a)(4) of the
   Act, where it meets the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	The housing accommodation was continuously vacant and not subject to a
   rental agreement for the period beginning on January 1, 1985, and continuing
   at least until the effective date of the Act; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Upon re-rental, the housing provider certifies to the Rent Administrator
   that the housing accommodation fulfills the conditions set forth in subsection
   (a) and is in substantial compliance with the housing regulations when offered
   for rent.

   4106.15. The Rent Administrator shall approve a claim of exemption under §
   205(a)(7) of the Act, where the rental unit for which exemption is claimed is
   one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is part of a housing accommodation regulated by a Building Improvement
   Plan executed under the District of Columbia Apartment Improvement Program,
   Inc.; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Is part of a housing accommodation regulated by and receiving assistance
   under any multi-family assistance program of the D.C. Department of Housing
   and Community Development.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336, 1380 (March 7,
   1986); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 2556, 2662
   (May 2, 1986).
