                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFECTIVE REGISTRATION (ยง 14-4104)

4104.1. The Rent Administrator shall review each Registration/Claim of
   Exemption form in order to determine if the form has been properly completed.
   If the form has not been properly completed, the Rent Administrator shall
   notify the housing provider in writing.

   4104.2. Any housing provider who has been notified of a defective registration
   and who does not correct the defects in thirty (30) days shall not be eligible
   for and shall not take or implement the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any upward adjustment in the rent ceiling for a rental unit authorized by
   the Act;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any increase in the rent charged for a rental unit which is not properly
   registered; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Any of the benefits which accrue to the housing provider of rental units
   exempt from the Rent Stabilization Program.

   4104.3. A Registration/Claim of Exemption form shall be considered defective
   under each of the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	If it is not signed;
   
   
   
   (b)	If it is not completed in accordance with instructions accompanying the
   form, or if it contains incorrect information;
   
   
   
   (c)	If it is not accompanied by the required supporting documents;
   
   
   
   (d)	If it is not accompanied by proof that the annual rental unit fee was paid
   as required by ยง 401 of the Act; or
   
   
   
   (e)	If a certification in accordance with ยง 4101.3(b) is not filed.

   4104.4. If the Rent Administrator believes a registration statement is
   defective, whether at the time of filing or subsequent to filing, the Rent
   Administrator shall notify the housing provider in writing of the specific
   defect(s) and allow the housing provider thirty (30) days to correct the
   defect(s).

   4104.5. If the defects in the registration statement are corrected in a timely
   manner, the registration shall be deemed to be proper from the date it was
   filed.

   4104.6. If the registration statement does not contain the name of the housing
   provider, the Rent Administrator shall require that an amendment to the
   registration statement be filed within thirty (30) days which provides the
   identity of the housing provider.

   4104.7. If the housing provider is not also the owner of the housing
   accommodation, the Rent Administrator shall require that an amendment to the
   registration statement be filed within thirty (30) days which provides a full
   statement of ownership and the relationship between the owner(s) and the
   housing provider.

   4104.8. The Rent Administrator may suspend a proceeding if an amendment to the
   registration statement is needed under this section or may continue the
   proceeding.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336, 1376 (March 7,
   1986).
