                                  DC REGULATIONS

REGISTRATION PROCEDURES (§ 14-4102)

4102.1. Each rental unit in a housing accommodation shall be registered on the
   Registration/Claim of Exemption form filed for the housing accommodation of
   which the rental unit is a part.

   4102.2. Each housing provider who registers one (1) or more rental units shall
   file with the Rent Administrator a Registration/Claim of Exemption form for
   each housing accommodation with a separate address, except as provided in §
   4102.3.

   4102.3. Where one (1) or more separate housing business licenses have been
   issued for a multibuilding housing complex, the housing provider shall file a
   Registration/Claim of Exemption form for each separate housing business
   license.

   4102.4. For the purposes of the Act and registration requirements, a
   residential condominium unit rented or offered for rent shall be deemed to be
   a housing accommodation consisting of one (1) rental unit, and shall be
   registered as such.

   4102.5. Where a housing provider is required to have a housing business
   license, the address of the housing accommodation on the Registration/Claim of
   Exemption form shall be the same as that on the housing business license.

   4102.6. Where the housing provider is not required to have a housing business
   license, the address of the housing accommodation on the Registration/Claim of
   Exemption form shall be the same as that maintained by the D.C. Office of Tax
   and Revenue for assessment of real property taxes against the housing
   accommodation.

   4102.7. If a housing accommodation required to be registered under the Act
   contains one (1) or more rental units excluded from coverage under the Act
   pursuant to § 205(e), or one (1) or more rental units exempt from the Rent
   Stabilization Program pursuant to § 205(a), the housing provider shall
   identify the excluded and/or exempt rental units on the Registration/Claim of
   Exemption form, and specify the section of the Act under which the exemption
   or exclusion is claimed.

   4102.8. Each housing provider registering under the Act shall submit to the
   Rent Administrator an original and one (1) copy of each Registration/Claim of
   Exemption form to be filed.

   4102.9. The Rent Administrator shall accept for filing, date-stamp and assign
   a registration number to each Registration/Claim of Exemption form that meets
   the requirements of the Act and of this chapter; and shall promptly return to
   the housing provider the date-stamped copy of the form bearing the
   registration number.

   4102.10. If the housing accommodation has a housing business license, the
   registration number shall be identical to the customer service number used by
   the D.C. Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.

   4102.11. If the housing accommodation is not required to be licensed, the Rent
   Administrator shall issue a registration number to the housing accommodation.
   The registration number for non-licensed housing accommodations may be the
   same number issued to the accommodation under the Rental Housing Act of 1980.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336, 1374 (March 7,
   1986).
   
   
   
   	EDITOR’S NOTE: The District of Columbia Office of the Chief Financial
   Officer published a Notice of Public Interest at 44 DCR 2345 (April 18, 1997)
   which advised that “[t]he OFFICE OF TAX AND REVENUE will assume all of the
   duties and functions previously performed by the DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND
   REVENUE, as set forth in Commissioner’s Order 69-96, dated March 7, 1969.”
   All references to the “Department of Finance and Revenue” in the original
   text of these regulations have been replaced with the “Office of Tax and
   Revenue.”
