                                  DC REGULATIONS

AUDITS AND REVIEWS (ยง 29-809)

809.1. Federal laws and regulations governing the Medicaid program mandate the
   ongoing conduct of audits and reviews by the state agency to detect and deter
   provider fraud and Medicaid patient misutilization and abuse. For the
   Department of Human Services, the Medical Assistance Division shall carry out
   these responsibilities.

   809.2. The Surveillance and Utilization Review Branch (SUR) of the Medical
   Assistance Division, shall perform ongoing audits, on-site visits, and reviews
   to ensure that Medicaid payments are consistent with efficiency, economy, and
   quality of care.

   809.3. The review process shall be routinely conducted to determine, by
   scientific sampling, the appropriateness of services rendered and billed to
   Medicaid.

   809.4. The SUR shall conduct routine onsite audits and reviews of each
   participating FSMHC to ensure that the FSMHC records fully, accurately, and
   properly document the provision of appropriate services to Medicaid patients
   that were billed to Medicaid during the period covered by the audit.

   809.5. Using a scientifically acceptable sampling technique, the SUR shall
   examine the medicaid patient records to determine whether or not services
   billed to Medicaid were appropriate and properly documented in the patient
   record. Questionable billings found shall be reviewed and discussed with the
   appropriate FSMHC staff for possible clarification and acceptance.

   809.6. If SUR determines that billings are to be denied, the Department of
   Human Services shall recoup, by the most expeditious means available, those
   monies erroneously paid to the FSMHC for denied billings.

   809.7. The recoupment amounts shall be determined by a formula by which a
   percentage shall be arrived at representing the relationship between the total
   billings from the FSMHC during the period being audited and the number of
   denied billings resulting from the audited sample which shall be applied to
   the total Medicaid dollars paid the FSMHC during the period covered by the
   audit and shall determine the dollar amount to be recouped. For example, if
   one hundred (100) records are audited in which one thousand (1,000) were
   billed to Medicaid and ten (10) of those billed services are denied for
   reimbursement, this represents a one percent (1%) denial rate. If during the
   period being audited, Medicaid paid the FSMHC ten thousand dollars ($10,000),
   one percent (1%), or one hundred dollars ($100) would be recouped.

   809.8. A participating FSMHC shall agree to facilitate audits and reviews by
   maintaining the required records and by cooperating with the authorized
   personnel assigned to perform audits and reviews. These personnel are bound by
   law to fully respect and abide by all protections of the law regarding
   confidentiality.

   809.9. All prospective FSMHC providers shall be informed that because there is
   federal financial participation in Medicaid payment, penalties on
   substantiated fraudulent activities are twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000)
   fines, imprisonment up to five (5) years, or both.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking adopted at 29 DCR 264 (January 15, 1982).
