                                  DC REGULATIONS

REIMBURSEMENT (ยง 29-808)

808.1. Since Medicaid cannot reimburse providers for services given without
   charge to the general public unless they are specifically exempted from
   charges by law, a participating FSMHC shall have an established fee schedule
   covering each of the services it provides from which a charge is made to each
   patient receiving the services.

   808.2. A participating FSMHC shall agree to accept as payment in full the
   amount determined by the Department of Human Services as the fee for the
   authorized services provided to Medicaid patients. No additional charge may be
   made to the Medicaid patient, any member of the family, or to any other
   source.

   808.3. A participating FSMHC shall agree to bill any and all other known third
   party payors prior to billing Medicaid.

   808.4. A participating FSMHC shall understand that the payment and
   satisfaction of any Medicaid claim will be from federal and District funds,
   and that false claims, statements, documents, or concealment of material fact
   may be prosecuted under applicable federal and District laws.

   808.5. The Department of Human Services shall establish fees and reimburse for
   only those services provided face-to-face by or under the direct supervision
   of a physician.

   808.6. Treatment-related services, such as information and referral services,
   charting, staffing of patients, co-therapy phone crisis intervention, case
   management, person and agency conferences, and similar charges shall not be
   reimbursable under Medicaid.

   808.7. Recreational therapy shall not be reimbursed under Medicaid.

   808.8. Medicaid shall reimburse a participating FSMHC for only one (1) type of
   service for a Medicaid patient on a given day; Provided, that if a full
   prescription visit, or medication assessment visit is indicated in addition to
   a therapy visit, and is accomplished on the same day, both services may be
   billed as long as no more than one (1) double billing of this type occurs in a
   single month. Any additional double billings deemed medically necessary shall
   be justified to, and approved by, the Medical Assistance Division prior to
   submission for payment.

   808.9. The following services shall be reimbursable if the physician has
   certified that the services were medically necessary and a treatment plan for
   the services has been established by a physician or other qualified mental
   health professional which is periodically reviewed and approved by a
   physician:
   
   
   
   (a)	INDIVIDUAL PSYCHOTHERAPY &#8211; verbal, drug augmented, or other therapy
   methods provided by a mental health professional in a face-to-face involvement
   with one (1) patient to the exclusion of other patients and duties. A minimum
   of fifty (50) minutes shall be allotted to the patient&#8217;s therapy hour;
   
   
   
   (b)	PRESCRIPTION VISITS &#8211; a visit with a physician for review and
   evaluation of the medication history of the patient and the writing or renewal
   of prescriptions as necessary. A minimum of fifteen (15) minutes shall be
   allotted to the visit;
   
   
   
   (c)	FAMILY THERAPY &#8211; therapy with the patient and one (1) or more family
   members present. Verbal or other therapy methods by a mental health
   professional in a personal involvement with the patient and family to the
   exclusion of other patients and duties. A minimum of sixty (60) minutes shall
   be allotted to the therapy hour. The clinic may bill Medicaid only for the
   Medicaid patient;
   
   
   
   (d)	FAMILY CONFERENCES &#8211; meeting with the family, or other significant
   persons (school, court, or other agency officials), to interpret or explain
   medical, psychiatric, or psychological examinations and procedures, other
   accumulated data and advice on how to assist the patient. A minimum of fifty
   (50) minutes shall be allotted to personal involvement with the family or
   other significant persons. The clinic may bill Medicaid only for the Medicaid
   patient;
   
   
   
   (e)	COMPLETE PSYCHOLOGICAL TESTING &#8211; up to five (5) hours of
   psychometric and projective tests with a written report done under the
   direction of a licensed clinical psychologist; and
   
   
   
   (f)	GROUP THERAPY &#8211; verbal or other therapy methods provided by a mental
   health professional in face-to-face involvement with three (3) or more
   patients with a maximum of twelve (12) patients. A minimum of sixty (60)
   minutes shall be allotted to the therapy hour.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking adopted at 29 DCR 264 (January 15, 1982).
