                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICE OF PAPERS (§ 3-5504)

5504.1. Any paper required to be served upon a party shall be served upon him
   or her or upon the representative designated by him or her, or on any person
   otherwise designated by law to receive service of papers.

   5504.2. When a party has appeared through an attorney or representative,
   service shall be made upon the attorney or representative of record.

   5504.3. Service may be made by personal delivery, by mail, by email, or as
   otherwise authorized by law.

   5504.4. Service upon a party shall be completed as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	By personal delivery, on handing the paper to the person to be served, or
   	leaving it at his or her office with his or her administrative assistant or
   	time clerk or other person in charge or, if there is no one in charge,
   leaving 	it in a conspicuous place in the office; or, if the office is closed
   or the 	person to be served has no office, by leaving it at his or her usual
   place of 	residence with some person of suitable age and discretion then
   residing in 	that place;
   
   
   
   (b)	By email, by sending the paper electronically to his or her District
   	Government email address or to the email address of his or her attorney or
   	representative as listed on the written appearance submitted pursuant to
   	§ 5503.
   
   
   
   (c)	By mail, on deposit in the United States mail, properly stamped and
   	addressed; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Upon being served in the specific manner prescribed by an order of the
   	Board made in any proceeding.

   5504.5. Where there are numerous parties to a proceeding, by written order the
   Board may make special provisions regarding the service of papers.

   5504.6. Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom
   served and the manner and date of service, shall be shown for each document
   served.

   5504.7. Proof of service may be made by any of the following means:
   
   
   
   (a)	Written acknowledgment of the party served or his or her attorney of
   	record;
   
   
   
   (b)	The certificate of the attorney of record if he or she has made the
   service; 	or
   
   
   
   (c)	The certificate of the person making the service.

   5504.8. For the purposes of this chapter, the phrase &#8220;filing with the
   Board,&#8221; means the actual delivery to, and physical receipt by, the Board
   of pleadings and other papers.

   5504.9. All documents filed with the Board relating to a hearing or formal
   investigation shall bear a caption which identifies the subject of the
   investigation, the Board’s case or reference number, and the title of the
   pleading or document.

   5504.10. All documents filed with the Board shall be printed on letter-sized
   paper using a font no smaller than 12 point.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 747 (January 25, 2013).
