                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL RULES OF PLEADING (§ 3-5509)

5509.1. A notice of violation shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A short and plain statement of the grounds upon which the Board’s
   	jurisdiction depends;
   
   
   
   (b)	The full names, residence addresses, position, title, agency, and
   telephone 	numbers of the respondent;
   
   
   
   (c)	A clear and concise statement of facts which are alleged to constitute a
   	violation of the law;
   
   
   
   (d)	A description of the respondent’s right to a hearing and all procedural
   	rights available to the respondent at the hearing;
   
   
   
   (e)	A description of the applicable law and regulations that govern the
   	disposition of the notice of violation should the respondent choose not to
   	file a response or fail to appear at a scheduled hearing; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The deadline for filing a response.

   5509.2. A respondent shall file with the Board, and serve a copy upon the
   Director and any other respondents identified in the notice of violation, a
   response that states in short and plain terms his or her defenses to each
   violation alleged and shall admit or deny the averments upon which the notice
   of violation relies.  A respondent shall serve his or her response within
   fifteen (15) days after the service of the notice of violation upon him or
   her.

   5509.3. If a respondent is without knowledge or information sufficient to form
   a belief as to the truth of an averment, he or she shall so state. This
   statement shall have the effect of a denial.

   5509.4. When a respondent intends in good faith to deny only a part of an
   allegation, he or she shall specify so much of the allegation as is true and
   shall deny only the remainder.

   5509.5. A respondent may, unless he or she intends in good faith to controvert
   all the allegations of a pleading, deny as specific denials of designated
   allegations or paragraphs, or the respondent may generally deny all the
   allegations except the designated allegations or paragraphs as the respondent
   expressly admits.

   5509.6. When a respondent intends to controvert all the allegations of the
   preceding pleading, including allegations of the grounds upon which the
   Board’s jurisdiction depends, the respondent party may do so by general
   denial.  If a respondent chooses not to file a response, the Board shall treat
   such action as a general denial.

   5509.7. A respondent shall raise any of the following defenses at the time he
   or she files a response:
   
   
   
   (a)	Lack of jurisdiction over the subject matter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Lack of jurisdiction over the person;
   
   
   
   (c)	Insufficiency of process; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Insufficiency of service of process.

   5509.8. The Director shall file any opposition to a § 5509.7 defense raised
   by a respondent within ten (10) days after service of a response on the Board.

   5509.9. No technical forms of pleadings or motions shall be required.

   5509.10. The Board or respondent may set forth two (2) or more statements of a
   charge, challenge, or defense alternately or hypothetically, either in one
   count or defense or in separate counts or defenses.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 747 (January 25, 2013).
