                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPUTATION OF TIME (§ 3-5501)

5501.1. In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by these rules
   or by any applicable statute, the day of the act, event, or default from which
   the designated period of time begins to run shall not be included.

   5501.2. The last day of the computed period shall be included unless it is a
   Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in which event the period shall run until
   the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.

   5501.3. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven (7)
   days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded
   from the computation unless an applicable statute expressly provides
   otherwise.

   5501.4. For the purposes of this chapter, &#8220;legal holiday&#8221; includes
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	New Year’s Day;
   
   
   
   (b)	Martin Luther King’s Birthday;
   
   
   
   (c)	President’s Day;
   
   
   
   (d)	District of Columbia Emancipation Day;
   
   
   
   (e)	Memorial Day;
   
   
   
   (f)	Independence Day (4th of July);
   
   
   
   (g)	Labor Day;
   
   
   
   (h)	Columbus Day;
   
   
   
   (i)	Veterans Day;
   
   
   
   (j)	Thanksgiving Day;
   
   
   
   (k)	Christmas Day; and
   
   
   
   (l)	Any other day designated a legal holiday by the President of the United
   	States or the District of Columbia government.

   5501.5. When an act is required or allowed to be done at or within a specified
   time, the Board may at any time in its discretion and for cause shown, do
   either of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	With or without motion or notice, order the period enlarged, if a request
   	for enlargement of time is made before the expiration of the period
   	originally prescribed or as extended by a previous order; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Upon motion made after the expiration of the specified period, permit the
   	act to be done where the failure to act was the result of excusable neglect.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 747 (January 25, 2013).
