                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION (ยง 20-2201)

2201.1. The applicant for registration for a pesticide that is federally
   registered shall file a statement with the Department that includes the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the applicant and the name and address of the
   person whose name will appear on the label, if different from the applicant;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name of the pesticide;
   
   
   
   (c)	A complete copy of the labeling accompanying the pesticide and a statement
   of all claims to be made for it, including directions for use;
   
   
   
   (d)	The use classification as provided in the FIFRA, as amended; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Other necessary information required for completion of the application
   form for registration.

   2201.2. If requested by the Director, a full description of every test
   conducted, and the results of the tests upon which any claim is based, shall
   be submitted.

   2201.3. The Director, when he or she deems it is necessary in the
   administration of the pesticide provisions of this title, may require the
   submission of the complete formula for any pesticide, including the active and
   inert ingredients.

   2201.4. The applicant desiring to register a pesticide shall pay an annual
   registration fee for each pesticide registered for the applicant.

   2201.5. Any registration approved by the Director and in effect on December
   31st, for which a renewal application has been made and the proper fee paid,
   shall continue in full force and effect until the Director notifies the
   applicant that the registration has been renewed or denied.

   2201.6. In renewing a registration, a statement shall be required only with
   respect to information that is different from that furnished when the
   pesticide was registered or last reregistered.

   2201.7. If the renewal of a pesticide registration is not filed prior to
   January 31st of any year, an additional fee of ten dollars ($10) shall be
   assessed and added to the original fee, and shall be paid by the applicant
   before the registration renewal for that pesticide shall be issued.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 3044, (October 6,
   1978), incorporating Proposed Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 2118 (August 25,
   1978)
