                                  DC REGULATIONS

MISBRANDED PESTICIDES AND DEVICES (§ 20-2208)

2208.1. It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute any pesticide or
   device that is misbranded.

   2208.2. A pesticide shall be &#8220;misbranded&#8221; if its labeling and
   packaging fails to comply with the provisions of this section.

   2208.3. No labeling on any pesticide shall bear any statement, design, or
   graphic representation relative to the pesticide or to its ingredients that is
   false or misleading in any way.

   2208.4. No pesticide shall be contained in a package or other container or
   wrapping that does not conform to the standards established by the
   Administrator pursuant to § 25(c)(3) of FIFRA.

   2208.5. No pesticide shall be an imitation of, or offered for sale under the
   name of, another pesticide.

   2208.6. The label of a pesticide shall bear the registration number assigned
   under § 7 of FIFRA to each establishment in which it is produced.

   2208.7. Any word, statement, or other information required by or under
   authority of FIFRA to appear on the label or labeling shall be prominently
   placed on the label with such conspicuousness (as compared with other words,
   statements, designs, or graphic matter in the labeling), and stated in terms
   that will render it likely to be read and understood by the ordinary
   individual under customary conditions of purchase and use.

   2208.8. The labeling accompanying a pesticide shall contain directions for use
   that are necessary for effecting the purpose for which the product is intended
   that, if complied with, together with any requirements imposed under § 3(d)
   of FIFRA, are adequate to protect health and the environment.

   2208.9. The label shall bear an ingredient statement on that part of the
   immediate container (and on the outside container or wrapper of the retail
   package, if there is one, through which the ingredient statement on the
   immediate container cannot be clearly read) which is presented or displayed
   under customary conditions of purchase, except as provided in § 2208.10.

   2208.10. The label need not bear an ingredient statement as required by §
   2208.9 if the size or form of the immediate container, or the outside
   container or wrapper of the retail package, makes it impracticable to place
   the ingredient statement on the part that is presented or displayed under
   customary conditions of purchase. In this case, the ingredient statement shall
   appear prominently on another part of the immediate container, or on the
   outside container or wrapper, as permitted by the Administrator.

   2208.11. Each label shall contain a statement of the use classification under
   which the pesticide is registered.

   2208.12. Each label shall contain a warning or cautionary statement that may
   be necessary and, if complied with, together with any requirements imposed
   under § 3(d) of FIFRA, is adequate to protect health and the environment.

   2208.13. Each pesticide shall have affixed to its container, and to the
   outside container or wrapper of its retail package, if there is one, through
   which the required information on the immediate container can be clearly read,
   a label bearing the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the producer, registrant, or person for whom the
   pesticide was produced;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name, brand, or trademark under which the pesticide is sold;
   
   
   
   (c)	The net weight or measure of the content; Provided, that the Administrator
   may permit reasonable variations; and
   
   
   
   (d)	When required by regulation of the Administrator to effectuate the
   purposes of FIFRA, the registration number assigned to the pesticide under
   FIFRA, and the use classification.

   2208.14. No pesticide shall contain any substance or substances in quantities
   highly toxic to man, unless the label bears, in addition to any other matter
   required by FIFRA, the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The skull and crossbones;
   
   
   
   (b)	The word &#8220;poison&#8221; prominently displayed in red on a background
   of distinctly contrasting color; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement of a practical treatment (first aid or otherwise) in case of
   poisoning by the pesticide.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Section 2(u) of the Pesticide Operations Act of 1977, D.C. Law 2-70,
   24 DCR 6867, 6871 (February 19, 1978).
