                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 15-4299)

4299.1. For the purposes of this chapter:
   
   
   
   &#8220;Biomass&#8221; means a solid, nonhazardous, cellulosic waste material
   that is segregated from other waste materials and is derived from any of the
   following forest-related resources, with the exception of old growth timber,
   unsegregated solid waste, or post-consumer waste paper: (a) mill residue, (b)
   precommercial soft wood thinning, (c) slash, (d) brush, (e) yard waste, (f)
   waste pallet, crate or dunnage, and (g) agricultural sources, including tree
   crops, vineyard materials, grain, legumes, sugar, and other crop by-products
   or residues.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Commission&#8221; means the Public Service Commission of the District
   of Columbia.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Electric company&#8221; means every corporation, company, association,
   joint-stock company or association, partnership, or person doing business in
   the District of Columbia, their lessees, trustees, or receivers appointed by
   any court whatsoever, physically transmitting or distributing electricity in
   the District of Columbia to retail electric customers. The term excludes any
   building owner, lessee, or manager who, respectively, owns, leases, or
   manages, the internal distribution system serving the building and who
   supplies electricity and other electricity related services solely to the
   occupants of the building for use by the occupants.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Electricity supplier&#8221; means a person, including an aggregator,
   broker, or marketer, who generates electricity; sells electricity; or
   purchases, brokers, arranges, or markets electricity for sale to customers.
   The term excludes the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Building owners, lessees, or managers who manage the internal distribution
   system serving such building and who supply electricity solely to occupants of
   the building for use by the occupants;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any person who purchases electricity for its own use or for the use of its
   subsidiaries or affiliates; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Any apartment building or office building manager who aggregates electric
   service requirements for his or her building or buildings, and who does not:
   
   
   
   (1)	Take title to the electricity;
   
   
   
   (2)	Market electric services to the individually-metered tenants of the
   building; or
   
   
   
   (3)	Engage in the resale of electric services to others;
   
   
   
   (d)	Property owners who supply small amounts of power, at cost, as an
   accommodation to lessors or licensees of the property; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A consolidator.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Hydroelectric&#8221; means power produced through conventional
   hydroelectric turbines.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Ocean&#8221; means power produced from currents, tides, waves, and
   thermal differences.
   
   
   
   &#8220;PJM Environmental Information Services&#8221; means the wholly-owned
   subsidiary of PJM Technologies, Inc. that provides environmental and emissions
   attributes reporting and tracking services to its subscribers.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Residual fuel mix&#8221; means the net amount of generation remaining
   after subtracting from the total generation occurring during a year any
   generation that has been removed through specific claims on such generation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 9737 (September 12, 2008),
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 55 DCR
   7572 (July 11, 2008).
