                                  DC REGULATIONS

HEALTH CARE RECORDS (§ 17-6812)

6812.1. A podiatrist shall maintain accurate, detailed, legible, and organized
   health
   
   	care records documenting all information collected pertaining to a
   patient’s health status.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A podiatrist shall not erase, alter, or conceal information in a patient’s
   
   		health care records.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A podiatrist shall initial and date any correction made to a patient’s
   
   		health care record in the corresponding margin and shall maintain the
   				legibility of any information that has been corrected.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A podiatrist shall release, within twenty-one (21) days after receipt of a
   request, a copy of a patient’s health care records when the request is made
   by:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The patient; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The legal representative or guardian of a patient or person 	authorized to
   	have access to the patient’s record under a health
   
   			care power of attorney.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A podiatrist may charge a reasonable copy fee per health care record and may
   refuse to provide a copy of the patient’s health care until payment has been
   made.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Health care records shall be maintained for a minimum period of three (3)
   
   		years after the last contact by the podiatrist with an adult patient and a
   				minimum period of three (3) years after a minor patient reaches the age of
   
   		majority.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A podiatrist shall post information in his or her office to inform patients of
   the period for health care record retention.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Patient health care records shall be destroyed in a manner that protects
   patient confidentiality, such as by incineration or shredding, and then only
   
   		after notice is provided to the last known address of the patient at least
   				sixty (60) days before destruction.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Patient health care records stored electronically shall have an established
   system of weekly back-up.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   When a podiatrist is closing, selling, or relocating his or her practice, he
   or she shall notify current and former patients whose health care records are
   being held by the podiatrist, at the patient’s last known address at least
   sixty (60) days before closing, selling, or relocating the practice.  The
   podiatrist shall indicate how, where, and for how long patient health care
   
   		records may be retrieved after the office is closed, sold, or relocated.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 8578, 8580 (October 7,
   2011).
