                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT OF HEARINGS (ยง 19-2044)

2044.1. A hearing before the Commission is open to the public.

   2044.2. Except when a hearing officer is designated, a majority of the members
   of the Commission must be present to hear evidence and render a decision.

   2044.3. A respondent entitled to a hearing has the following rights:
   
   
   
   (a)	To be represented by counsel;
   
   
   
   (b)	To present relevant evidence by means of witnesses and books, papers, and
   documents;
   
   
   
   (c)	To examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues; and
   
   
   
   (d)	To cause the Commission, upon written request, to issue subpoenas to
   compel testimony and the production of relevant books, papers, and documents.

   2044.4. In connection with any hearing held in accordance with this chapter,
   the Commission or its designee has the following powers:
   
   
   
   (a)	To require the attendance of witnesses and the production of books,
   papers, and other evidence;
   
   
   
   (b)	To administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses;
   
   
   
   (c)	To take testimony and examine witnesses;
   
   
   
   (d)	To require the respondent to undergo a medical examination by a physician
   approved by the Commission;
   
   
   
   (e)	To direct the continuance of a case; and
   
   
   
   (f)	To issue other orders necessary to its conduct of the proceedings.

   2044.5. The Commission shall require the attendance of witnesses and
   production of books, papers, and other evidence reasonably requested by the
   respondent.

   2044.6. In case of contumacy by or refusal by any person to obey a subpoena or
   other lawful order of the Commission, the Commission may refer the matter to
   the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, which may by order require the
   person to appear and give testimony or produce books, papers, or other
   evidence bearing on the hearing or to undergo a medical examination.  Refusal
   to obey such an order constitutes contempt of court.

   2044.7. The Commission shall exclude irrelevant, immaterial or unduly
   repetitious evidence or testimony.

   2044.8. The Commission may take official notice, at the request of a party or
   on its own motion, of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The law and rules of the District of Columbia, the United States, and any
   state of the United States:
   
   
   
   (b)	Material facts in the official files of the Commission or the Department
   or other
   
   District agency; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A fact which is not subject to reasonable dispute in that it is generally
   known within the District of Columbia or is capable of accurate and ready
   determination by resort to sources the accuracy of which cannot reasonably be
   questioned.

   2044.9. If the Commission takes official notice of material fact not appearing
   in evidence in the record, a party shall be given an opportunity to show the
   contrary at the hearing or on motion made within five (5) days after the
   hearing.

   2044.10. The parties may, by stipulation in writing filed with a board, agree
   on the facts or any portion thereof involved in a hearing. The parties may
   also stipulate the testimony that would be given by a witness if the witness
   were present. The Commission, in its discretion, may require additional
   evidence regarding any matter covered by a stipulation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3710, 3724-26 (May 20, 1988).
