                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE OF PROPOSED ACTION AND OPPORTUNITY FOR A HEARING (§ 19-2043)

2043.1. Each applicant or licensee shall be notified and given an opportunity
   to be heard before the Commission takes any of the following actions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Denies a license for any cause other than failure to pass a required test
   or physical examination.
   
   
   
   (b)	Suspends a license;
   
   
   
   (c)	Revokes a license;
   
   
   
   (d)	Restricts or places conditions upon a license;
   
   
   
   (e)	Reprimands or censures a licensee;
   
   
   
   (f)	Refuses to restore a license;
   
   
   
   (g)	Refuses to renew a license for any cause other than failure to pay the
   prescribed fees;
   
   
   
   (h)	Imposes a civil fine or penalty; or
   
   
   
   (i)	Orders a contestant’s purse forfeited to the promoter.

   2043.2. When the Commission proposes to deny a license pursuant to §
   2043.1(a) or (f), it shall give the applicant the following information in
   writing:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement indicating how the applicant has failed to satisfy the
   Commission as to the applicant’s qualifications for licensure; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement that the Commission will take the proposed action unless the
   respondent requests a hearing by certified letter addressed to the Commission,
   mailed with twenty (20) days after service of the notice.

   2043.3. When the Commission proposes to take any action specified in §
   2043.1(b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h) or (i), it shall give the respondent the
   following information in writing:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement that the Commission has evidence, and setting forth the nature
   of the evidence, which if not rebutted or explained, justifies the proposed
   action; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement that the Commission will take the proposed action unless the
   applicant or licensee requests a hearing by letter addressed to the Commission
   and mailed no later than twenty (20) days after service of the notice.

   2043.4. If the respondent does not request a hearing within the time
   specified, the Commission may take the action specified in the notice without
   holding a hearing. The Commission shall give written notice of its action to:
   
   
   
   (a)	The respondent;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Corporation Counsel; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The Director.

   2043.5. A notice of a proposed disciplinary action listed in § 2043.1(b),
   (c), (d), (e), (g), (h), or (i) shall be in the form of charges and
   specifications. A notice of a proposed denial action listed in § 2043.1(a) or
   (d) shall be in a form of a letter of proposed denial.

   2043.6. Any notice required by this section may be served personally or by
   certified mail, return receipt requested, directed to the respondent at the
   respondent’s last known residence or business address as shown by the
   records of the Department.

   2043.7. If notice is served personally, it is deemed served when delivery is
   made to the respondent.

   2043.8. If notice is served by certified mail, it is deemed served on the date
   written on the return receipt showing delivery of the notice to the
   respondent, or the refusal of the respondent to receive the notice. An
   indication that the addressee is unknown or has moved with no forwarding
   address constitutes a refusal by the addressee to receive the notice.

   2043.9. If an applicant or respondent does not appear for a scheduled hearing,
   and if the Commission does not grant a continuance, the Commission may receive
   evidence and render a decision on the basis of the evidence presented at the
   hearing.

   2043.10. If the respondent requests a hearing in accordance with this section,
   the Commission shall notify the respondent, within twenty (20) days following
   receipt of the request, of the time and place of the hearing.

   2043.11. The Commission shall schedule a hearing for a date not more than
   sixty (60) days nor less than fifteen (15) days following the date of service
   of notice upon applicant or respondent unless the respondent agrees to an
   earlier or later date.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3710, 3722-24 (May 20, 1988).
