                                  DC REGULATIONS

PERMITS FOR EVENTS (§ 19-2026)

2026.1. Except as provided in § 2026.2, no person shall hold an event or
   telecast an event without a permit issued pursuant to this chapter.

   2026.2. A permit is not required for an event for which no prize or purse is
   offered or for which no admission fee is charged.

   2026.3. Only a promoter licensed pursuant to this chapter and in good standing
   may apply for a permit under this section.

   2026.4. Subject to § 2026.5, an applicant for a permit under this section
   shall at least thirty (30) days prior to the event do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit a completed application to the Commission on the prescribed form
   including the following information:
   
   
   
   (1)	The applicant’s name, street address, and license number;
   
   
   
   (2)	The date and location of the event;
   
   
   
   (3)	The name of each contestant in each event;
   
   
   
   (4)	 The number of rounds in each event;
   
   
   
   (5)	The designation of the main event and “semi-main” event or events; and
   
   
   
   (6)	A list of all sources from which the applicant reasonably expects to
   derive income in connection with the event for which the permit is sought and
   the amount of income projected from each source.
   
   
   
   (b)	Pay the required fee; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Submit with the application the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A financial statement demonstrating that the applicant has sufficient
   funds to meet all financial obligations of promoting the event for which the
   permit is sought;
   
   
   
   (2)	Certificates of insurance evidencing that the applicant has obtained:
   
   
   
   (A)	Insurance covering property damage and personal injury to spectators in an
   amount as required by the facility at which the event will be held and as
   approved by the Commission; and
   
   
   
   (B)	Insurance providing medical coverage for each contestant in an amount to
   be approved by the Commission based on prevailing costs of medical treatment
   and the circumstances of each event, but in no case less than ten thousand
   dollars ($10,000); and
   
   
   
   (3)	A deposit, in the form of cash, certified check, cashier’s check, or
   money order in the amount of the total purse of all contestants in the event.

   2026.5. The Commission, in its discretion, may shorten the period required by
   § 2026.4.

   2026.6. The Commission shall not issue a permit for a boxing event unless the
   program of which the event is a part has been scheduled for a total of
   thirty-two (32) rounds of boxing, in the case of a professional program, or
   twenty-six (26) rounds, in the case of a professional-amateur event. The
   Commission, in its discretion, may reduce the number of rounds required.

   2026.7. The Commission, in its discretion, may make the permit contingent upon
   approval by the Fire Department, prior to the event, of plans showing the
   seating arrangements, aisle spacing, exit facilities, and location of fire
   fighting appliances.

   2026.8. The chief inspector shall report to the Commission any violation that
   cannot be corrected by the starting time of the event and, upon such a report,
   the Commission may cancel the permit for the event issued under this section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3710, 3717-19 (May 20, 1988).
