                                  DC REGULATIONS

RESPONSIBILITIES OF TENANTS (§ 14-802)

802.1. In those portions of premises occupied for residential purposes under
   the exclusive control of a tenant, it shall be the responsibility of the
   tenant to observe the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise indicated
   in this chapter.

   802.2. In addition to the tenant’s responsibilities under § 800, the tenant
   shall specifically be responsible for the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Keeping the part of the premises that the tenant occupies and uses as
   clean and sanitary as the conditions of the premises permit;
   
   
   
   (b)	Disposing from the tenant’s dwelling unit all rubbish, garbage, and
   other organic or flammable waste, in a clean, safe, and sanitary manner;
   
   
   
   (c)	Keeping all plumbing fixtures as clean and sanitary as the condition of
   those fixtures permit;
   
   
   
   (d)	Properly using and operating all electrical, gas, plumbing, and heating
   fixtures and appliances.

   802.3. A tenant shall not do or permit any person on the premises with the
   tenant’s permission to do any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Willfully or wantonly destroy, deface, damage, impair, or remove any part
   of the structure or dwelling unit; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Willfully or wantonly destroy, deface, damage, impair, or remove any part
   of the facilities, equipment, or appurtenances to the dwelling unit.

   802.4. The tenant of each dwelling unit in multiple dwellings shall provide as
   needed for the tenant’s own use sufficient, lawful and separate receptacles
   for the storage of ashes, garbage, and refuse in the tenant’s own unit.

   802.5. All garbage, refuse, and ashes of each unit shall be placed by the
   tenant in receptacles and transferred by the tenant to the designated place of
   common storage on the premises, unless the collection and transfer is provided
   by the operator.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: The Housing Regulations of the District of Columbia, 5G DCRR §§
   2601, 2602A and 3205, Commissioners’ Order 55-1503 (August 11, 1955).
