                                  DC REGULATIONS

DELEGATION OF NURSING INTERVENTIONS (§ 17-5415)

5415.1. Nothing in this section shall be applicable to, restrict, or limit the
   gratuitous provision of care by self, family, or friends.

   5415.2. Only a registered nurse as set forth in the Act and this chapter shall
   delegate nursing interventions to be performed by trained unlicensed personnel
   on behalf of the delegating registered nurse. Such delegation shall be in a
   manner that does not conflict with the Act, this chapter, or with other
   District and federal laws and regulations which affect the practice of nursing
   in the District of Columbia. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
   permitting or authorizing an unlicensed person to perform duties beyond the
   scope permitted, or which are prohibited, by any other District or federal
   laws or regulations.

   5415.3. A supervisor may delegate to a registered nurse the responsibility of
   directing and assigning nursing interventions to trained unlicensed personnel,
   once the registered nurse has developed the plan of care and identified those
   services that can be safely performed by the unlicensed personnel.

   5415.4. The delegating registered nurse shall be responsible for the adequacy
   of care provided and shall retain accountability for the nursing task.

   5415.5. The Administrator for Nursing Services, or supervisor, shall be
   responsible for establishing policies and procedures for nursing practice. The
   policies and procedures shall include a mechanism for:
   
   
   
   (a)	Identifying those individuals, by position title and job description, to
   whom nursing interventions may be delegated based on education, training, and
   competency measurements; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Assisting the delegating registered nurse in verifying the competency of
   the trained unlicensed personnel prior to assigning nursing interventions.

   5415.6. If the delegating registered nurse determines that the trained
   unlicensed personnel cannot safely perform the nursing intervention, the
   delegating registered nurse shall not delegate the nursing intervention.

   5415.7. The delegating registered nurse shall assign and delegate in a manner
   that protects the health, safety, and welfare of the client and others. The
   nursing tasks delegated shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be within the area of responsibility of the nurse delegating the act;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be such that, in the judgment of the nurse, it can be properly and safely
   performed by the unlicensed personnel without jeopardizing the client welfare;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	Be a task that a reasonable and prudent nurse would find is within the
   scope of sound nursing judgment.

   5415.8. When delegating a nursing intervention the nurse shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Assess and evaluate the client&#8217;s condition, identify the
   client&#8217;s specific goals, nursing care needs, and required nursing
   interventions;
   
   
   
   (b)	Select and identify nursing interventions which do not require unlicensed
   trained personnel to exercise critical thinking and independent nursing
   judgment and which do not require either complex or multi-dimensional
   application of the nursing process; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Select nursing interventions, which frequently recur in the daily care of
   the client or group of clients, whose results are predictable, whose potential
   for risk is minimal, and which utilize a standard and unchanging procedure.

   5415.9. Trained unlicensed personnel shall practice under general or immediate
   supervision of a registered nurse.

   5415.10. The delegating registered nurse shall be fully responsible for
   providing supervision to the trained unlicensed personnel. The supervision
   shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Instructing the unlicensed personnel in the delegated nursing
   intervention(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	Monitoring the performance of the delegated nursing intervention(s);
   
   
   
   (c)	Verifying that the delegated nursing intervention(s) has been implemented;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	Evaluating the client&#8217;s response and the outcome of the delegated
   nursing intervention(s).

   5415.11. The delegating registered nurse shall determine the required degree
   of supervision after an evaluation of appropriate factors including:
   
   
   
   (a)	The stability of the client&#8217;s condition;
   
   
   
   (b)	The willingness and ability of the client to be involved in the management
   of his or her care;
   
   
   
   (c)	The training, experience, and competency of the trained unlicensed
   personnel implementing the nursing intervention; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The nature of the nursing intervention.

   5415.12. Except as provided in § 5415.13, the delegating nurse responsible
   for nursing care in the client&#8217;s residence shall make a supervisory
   visit to the residence at least every two (2) weeks to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Evaluate the client&#8217;s health status;
   
   
   
   (b)	Evaluate the performance of the delegated nursing acts;
   
   
   
   (c)	Determine whether goals are being met; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Evaluate the continued competence of the trained unlicensed individual to
   perform the delegated nursing task.

   5415.13. If the trained unlicensed person is providing care limited to
   activities of daily living in the client&#8217;s residence, then the
   delegating nurse shall make supervisory visits to the client&#8217;s home as
   the nurse determines necessary for safe, effective nursing care of the client.

   5415.14. The following nursing interventions shall not be delegated to trained
   unlicensed personnel:
   
   
   
   (a)	The initial nursing assessment;
   
   
   
   (b)	The ongoing comprehensive nursing assessment of the client in any setting;
   
   
   
   (c)	Development of the nursing diagnosis;
   
   
   
   (d)	Establishment of the nursing care goal;
   
   
   
   (e)	Evaluation of the client&#8217;s progress, or lack of progress toward goal
   achievement;
   
   
   
   (f)	Client counseling and family education, except as it relates to promoting
   independence in personal care and activities of daily living (ADL&#8217;s);
   
   
   
   (g)	Coordination and management of care including triage, collaborating,
   consulting, and referring;
   
   
   
   (h)	Providing advice to a client or family member; or
   
   
   
   (i)	Any nursing task which requires nursing knowledge, judgment, and skill.

   5415.15. The delegating registered nurse shall retain full responsibility for
   medication administration as set forth by the Act.

   5415.16. A delegating registered nurse may delegate the intervention of
   administering medication to trained unlicensed personnel in programs for
   individuals with mental retardation or other developmental disabilities;
   public schools; and assisted living residential facilities as authorized under
   D.C. Official Code § 21-1203; D.C. Official Code § 38-632; and D.C. Official
   Code § 44-109.05.

   5415.17. Unless otherwise authorized under this title, a delegating registered
   nurse shall not delegate to trained unlicensed personnel any nursing acts or
   interventions relating to medication administration, including:
   
   
   
   (a)	Calculation of a medication dose;
   
   
   
   (b)	Administration of the initial dose of a medication;
   
   
   
   (c)	Administration of a medication by injection route, except for epipen or
   ejection system as set forth in 17 DCMR § 6111;
   
   
   
   (d)	Administration of medication by intravenous route;
   
   
   
   (e)	Administration of medication used for intermittent positive pressure
   breathing or other methods involving a mechanical device or equipment for
   medication inhalation treatment;
   
   
   
   (f)	Administration of medication by way of tube insertion in a cavity of the
   body; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Administration of investigational drug treatment and blood or blood
   products.

   5415.18. Trained unlicensed personnel shall identify himself or herself as
   such at all times when participating in client care. The individual shall wear
   a pictured identification badge with lettering clearly visible to the client,
   bearing the name of the individual and his or her position title. The position
   title shall not in anyway imply that the individual is licensed or a nurse.

   5415.19. The delegating registered nurse shall be responsible at all times for
   all nursing interventions provided by the trained unlicensed personnel to whom
   it was delegated, and is subject to disciplinary action for any violation of
   the Act or this chapter in connection with the nursing intervention by the
   trained unlicensed personnel.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 8613 (September 3, 2004).
