                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPERVISED PRACTICE OF APPLICANTS FOR LICENSURE BY ENDORSEMENT (ยง 17-5413)

5413.1. An applicant may practice registered nursing only in accordance with
   the Act and this chapter.

   5413.2. An applicant for licensure by endorsement may be authorized to engage
   in the supervised practice of registered nursing in the District of Columbia
   without a District of Columbia license if the applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is currently licensed as a registered nurse under the laws of a state or
   territory of the United States;
   
   
   
   (b)	Is a graduate of a program approved in accordance with ยง 5402.1, or can
   demonstrate competency in English pursuant to ยง 5405.3; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Has an initial application pending for licensure by endorsement in the
   District of Columbia.

   5413.3. A person who has been denied a license, disciplined, convicted of an
   offense that bears directly upon his or her fitness to be licensed, or who has
   such an action pending in the District of Columbia or another jurisdiction
   shall not practice pursuant to this section unless first authorized by the
   Board in writing.

   5413.4. Within five (5) business days after the application for licensure by
   endorsement has been received by the Board&#8217;s staff, the Board&#8217;s
   staff shall issue a practice letter to the applicant to document that his or
   her application is pending and that he or she is eligible to practice under
   the Act and this chapter. The practice letter is not renewable and shall
   expire:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ninety (90) days from the date of issuance; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Upon receipt of written notice from the Board that the application for
   licensure has been denied, whichever date is the earliest.

   5413.5. Upon receipt of the practice letter, the applicant shall inform
   employers of the date of expiration of the letter and shall immediately cease
   professional nursing practice in the District on that date or upon receipt of
   written notice from the Board that the application for licensure has been
   denied, whichever date is the earliest. The applicant thereafter may practice
   in a non-professional healthcare occupation, until receipt of a District of
   Columbia license to practice registered nursing.

   5413.6. Only a registered nurse licensed under the Act, who is a supervisor,
   may be authorized to supervise the practice of registered nursing by an
   applicant.

   5413.7. All supervised practice of an applicant shall take place under general
   or immediate supervision.

   5413.8. An applicant who practices pursuant to this section shall only
   practice at a hospital, long-term care facility, a health facility operated by
   the District or federal government, academic institutions; or other health
   care facility considered appropriate and approved by the Board.

   5413.9. An applicant shall not be eligible to practice registered nursing in
   any of the following settings:
   
   
   
   (a)	Correctional Facility;
   
   
   
   (b)	Dialysis Center;
   
   
   
   (c)	Home Health Agency;
   
   
   
   (d)	Community Residential Facility;
   
   
   
   (e)	Nursing Staffing Agency;
   
   
   
   (f)	Medical Group Practice;
   
   
   
   (g)	School, (as a school nurse); and
   
   
   
   (h)	Any other setting that does not meet the requirements of ยง 5413.8.

   5413.10. An applicant practicing under this section shall not assume
   administrative or technical responsibility for the operation of a nursing
   program, unit, service, or institution.

   5413.11. An applicant shall not receive compensation of any nature, directly
   or indirectly, from a client or client&#8217;s family member, except for a
   salary based on hours worked under supervision.

   5413.12. The supervisor shall be fully responsible for the practice by an
   applicant during the period of supervision and may be subject to disciplinary
   action for violations of the Act or this chapter by the applicant.

   5413.13. The Board may deny an application for licensure by, or take other
   disciplinary action against, an applicant who is found to have violated the
   Act or this chapter. The Board may, in addition to any other disciplinary
   actions permitted by the Act, revoke, suspend, or restrict the privilege of
   the applicant to practice.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 8613 (September 3, 2004).
