                                  DC REGULATIONS

LICENSURE BY ENDORSEMENT (ยง 17-5405)

5405.1. An applicant is eligible for licensure by endorsement if the applicant
   is currently licensed as a registered nurse under the laws of a state or
   territory of the United States; and if the applicant&#8217;s original
   licensure in a state or territory was based upon:
   
   
   
   (a)	A passing score on a state constructed examination taken prior to 1949;
   
   
   
   (b)	A passing score on the State Board Test Pool Examination for nurses taken
   between January 1949 and February 1982; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A passing score on the NCLEX-RN.

   5405.2. To apply for a license by endorsement, an applicant shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit a completed application to the Board on the required forms and
   include:
   
   
   
   (1)	The applicant&#8217;s social security number on the application. If the
   applicant does not have a social security number, the applicant shall submit a
   sworn affidavit, under penalty of perjury, with the application stating that
   he or she does not have a social security number; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Two (2) recent passport-type photographs of the applicant&#8217;s face
   measuring two inches by two inches (2&#8243; x 2&#8243;) which clearly exposes
   the area from the top of the forehead to the bottom of the chin.
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit a copy of his or her current license with the application;
   
   
   
   (c)	Obtain licensure verification from the original state or territory of
   licensure that the license is current and in good standing:
   
   
   
   (1)	If the license from the original state or territory is not current, an
   applicant shall obtain verification from a state or territory that the
   applicant holds a current license in good standing; and
   
   
   
   (2)	The licensure verification form must be sent directly to the Board, by the
   verifying Board;
   
   
   
   (d)	Meet any other requirements as set forth by the Board; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Pay all required fees.

   5405.3. If the applicant completed an educational program for registered
   nursing in a foreign country, which program was not approved in accordance
   with the requirements set forth in ยง 5402.1, the applicant shall also
   demonstrate spoken and written competency in English by providing
   documentation of one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Graduation from a nursing program where English was the only language of
   instruction throughout the applicant&#8217;s inclusive dates of attendance;
   
   
   
   (b)	Successful completion of the Test of Spoken English (TSE) examination;
   
   
   
   (c)	Successful completion of the International English Language Testing System
   (IELTS) examination with a passing score of six and one half (6.5) overall
   with a spoken band score of seven (7.0); or
   
   
   
   (d)	Provide proof that the applicant has completed a total of twelve (12)
   months of full-time employment at a health care facility in a state or
   territory of the United States during the two (2) years immediately preceding
   the date of application.

   5405.4. An application that remains incomplete for ninety (90) days or more
   from the date of submission shall be considered abandoned, and closed by the
   Board. The applicant shall thereafter be required to reapply, submit the
   required documents and completed forms, and pay the required fees.

   5405.5. Nothing is this section shall be construed to prohibit the Board from
   utilizing other authorized databases to verify an applicant&#8217;s current
   licensure standing in other jurisdictions of the U.S. or to review
   disciplinary records.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 8613 (September 3, 2004).
