                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTINUING EDUCATION (ยง 17-5410)

5410.1. The Board, in its discretion, may approve continuing education
   programs and activities that contribute to the growth of an applicant in
   professional and competence in the practice of registered nursing and which
   meet the other requirements of this section.

   5410.2. Continuing education credit may be granted only for programs or
   activities approved by the Board.

   5410.3. The Board shall maintain a list of approved continuing education
   programs which shall be available to the public during regular business hours
   and posted on the Department&#8217;s internet website.

   5410.4. A licensee shall have the burden of verifying whether a program is
   approved by the Board pursuant to this section prior to enrolling in a
   program.

   5410.5. At the request of a licensee, or the sponsor of a continuing education
   program, the Board may approve the following types of continuing education
   programs if the program meets the requirements of this section:
   
   
   
   (a)	An undergraduate course or graduate course given at an accredited college
   or university;
   
   
   
   (b)	A conference, course, seminar, or workshop;
   
   
   
   (c)	An educational course offered through the internet; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Other programs approved by the Board which meet the requirements of this
   section.

   5410.6. To qualify for approval by the Board, a continuing education program
   shall meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be current in its subject matter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be developed and taught by qualified individuals; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Meet one of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	Be administered and approved by a registered nurse, nursing organization,
   or health services organization that is recognized by the Board; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Be administered and approved by a health care facility, institution,
   organization, college, school, or university that is accredited by the
   Secretary of the United States Department of Education, the Council on Post
   Secondary Accreditation, or the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC).

   5410.7. A licensee shall submit the following information with respect to each
   program for which continuing education is claimed, on a form required by the
   Board:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the sponsor of the program;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name of the program, its location, a description of the subject matter
   covered, and the name(s) of the instructor(s);
   
   
   
   (c)	The date(s) on which the licensee attended the program;
   
   
   
   (d)	The hours of credit claimed; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Attach a verification form signed and stamped by the program sponsor.

   5410.8. The Board shall grant continuing education credit for whole hours
   only, with a minimum of fifty (50) minutes constituting one (1) credit hour.

   5410.9. For approved undergraduate or graduate courses, each semester hour of
   credit shall constitute fifteen (15) hours of continuing education credit, and
   each quarter hour of credit shall constitute ten (10) hours of continuing
   education credit.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 8613 (September 3, 2004).
