                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUESTING RECONSIDERATION, A NEW HEARING, OR RELIEF FROM A FINAL ORDER (§
1-2828)

2828.1. This Section contains Rules about how to ask an Administrative Law
   Judge to change a final order after it has been issued.  Errors or omissions
   are not a sufficient basis for a new hearing or to change an order if the
   errors are harmless.

   2828.2. No motion filed under this Section stays the final order or otherwise
   affects a party’s obligations to comply with the final order, unless an
   Administrative Law Judge orders otherwise.

   2828.3. Within ten (10) calendar days after a final order has been served, any
   party may file a motion asking the Administrative Law Judge to change the
   final order.  Such a motion is a “motion for reconsideration or for a new
   hearing.”

   2828.4. If any party files a motion for reconsideration or for a new hearing
   within the ten (10) calendar day deadline, the time for seeking judicial
   review of a final order does not start to run until the Administrative Law
   Judge rules on the motion, or the motion is denied as a matter of law under
   Subsection 2828.15.

   2828.5. If any party files a motion for reconsideration or for a new hearing
   within the ten (10) calendar day deadline, and where substantial justice
   requires, the Administrative Law Judge may change the final order for any
   reason including, but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The party filing the motion did not attend the hearing, has a good reason
   for not doing so, and states an adequate claim or defense;
   
   
   
   (b)	The party filing the motion did not file a required answer to a Notice of
   Infraction or Notice of Violation or did not file some other required
   document, has a good reason for not doing so, and states an adequate claim or
   defense;
   
   
   
   		(c)	The final order contains an error of law;
   
   
   
   		(d)	The final order’s findings of fact are not supported by the evidence;
   or
   
   
   
   (e)	New evidence has been discovered that previously was not 	reasonably
   available to the party filing the motion.

   2828.6. An Administrative Law Judge shall treat any motion asking for a change
   in a final order as a motion for reconsideration or for a new hearing if it is
   filed within the ten (10) calendar day deadline specified in Subsection
   2828.3, regardless of the title that a party gives to that motion.

   2828.7. After the ten (10) calendar day deadline, a party may file a motion
   asking the Administrative Law Judge to change the final order.  A motion filed
   under this Subsection is a “motion for relief from the final order.”

   2828.8. Any motion for relief from the final order has no effect on the
   deadline for seeking judicial review of the final order.

   2828.9. Any motion for relief from the final order must be filed within one
   hundred twenty (120) calendar days after service of the final order.

   2828.10. On a motion for relief from the final order, an Administrative Law
   Judge may change the final order only for one or more of the following
   reasons:
   
   
   
   		(a)	Mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Newly discovered evidence that by due diligence could not have been
   discovered in time to file a motion for reconsideration or for a new hearing
   within the ten (10) calendar day deadline;
   
   
   
   (c)	Fraud, misrepresentation, or other misconduct of an adverse party;
   
   
   
   (d)	The final order is void;
   
   
   
   (e)	A prior judgment on which the final order is based has been reversed or
   otherwise vacated, or it is no longer equitable that the judgment should have
   prospective application;
   
   
   
   (f)	The party filing the motion did not attend the hearing, has a good reason
   for not doing so, and states an adequate claim or defense;
   
   
   
   (g)	The party filing the motion did not file a required answer to a Notice of
   Infraction, or Notice of Violation or did not file some other required
   document, has a good reason for not doing so, and 	states an adequate claim or
   defense; or
   
   
   
   (h)	For good cause shown, the Government may ask that a final order issued in
   its favor be set aside.

   2828.11. An Administrative Law Judge shall treat any motion asking for a
   change in a final order as a motion for relief from the final order, if the
   motion is not filed within the ten (10) calendar day deadline specified in
   Subsection 2828.3, regardless of the title that a party gives to that motion.

   2828.12. Any party filing any motion under this Section must include a short
   and plain statement of all the reasons why the Administrative Law Judge should
   change the final order.

   2828.13. An opposing party is not required to file a response to any motion
   under this Section, unless an Administrative Law Judge orders a response. 
   Before granting any motion under the Section, an Administrative Law Judge must
   issue an order allowing the opposing party an opportunity to respond to the
   motion.

   2828.14. If an Administrative Law Judge grants a motion filed under this
   Section, he or she may:
   
   
   
   (a)	Order further submissions from the parties;
   
   
   
   (b)	Order the parties to appear for a hearing; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Issue a new final order that may or may not change the result in the
   	case.

   2828.15. An Administrative Law Judge should rule on any motion filed under
   this Section within forty-five (45) calendar days of its filing.  If an
   Administrative Law Judge has not done so, the motion is denied as a matter of
   law.  An Administrative Law Judge may extend the period once for an additional
   thirty (30) calendar days by issuing an order before the first forty-five (45)
   day period expires.  After expiration of any applicable deadline, the
   Administrative Law Judge, in his or her discretion, may issue a statement of
   reasons for denying the motion, but any such statement has no effect on the
   time for seeking judicial review or filing any other appeal.

   2828.16. If the motion has been denied as a matter of law under Subsection
   2828.15, OAH shall send written notice to the parties.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 6399 (June 25, 2004); as amended
   by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 12541, 12562 (December 31,
   2010).
