                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPRESENTATION BY ATTORNEYS AND LAW STUDENTS (§ 1-2833)

2833.1. An attorney may represent any party before OAH.  Unless otherwise
   provided by statute or these Rules, only attorneys who are active members in
   good standing of the District of Columbia Bar, or who are authorized to
   practice law in the District of Columbia pursuant to Rules 49(c)(1), (4), (8),
   or (9) of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals, may appear before OAH as
   a representative of a party.

   2833.2. An attorney who is not a member of the District of Columbia Bar, and
   who is not authorized to practice law in the District of Columbia pursuant to
   Rules 49(c)(1), (4), (8), or (9) of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals,
   may appear before OAH after the filing and granting of a motion to appear pro
   hac vice, in which the attorney shall declare under penalty of perjury that:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (a)	I have not applied for admission pro hac vice in more than five cases in
   OAH or in the courts of the District of Columbia during this calendar year.  I
   have applied for admission pro hac vice in OAH and in the courts of the
   District of Columbia ______ 	(list number) times previously in this calendar
   year;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (b)	I am a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court(s) of the
   State(s) of ______ (list all states);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (c)	There are no disciplinary complaints pending against me for violation of
   the rules of the courts of those states;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		(d)	I am not currently suspended or disbarred from practice in any court;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		(e) 	I do not practice or hold out to practice law in the District of
   Columbia;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (f)	I am familiar with OAH’s Rules found at 1 DCMR 28 and 29;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (g)	I am applying for admission pro hac vice for the following reason(s):
   ______  (list all reasons);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (h)	I acknowledge the jurisdiction of OAH and the courts of the District of
   Columbia over my professional conduct, and agree to be bound by the District
   of Columbia Court of Appeals Rules of Professional Conduct, in this matter, if
   I am admitted pro hac vice; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (i)	I have informed my client that I am not a member of the District of
   Columbia Bar, and my client has consented to my representation in this case.

   2833.3. For good cause shown, the presiding Administrative Law Judge may
   revoke the pro hac vice admission of any attorney.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   2833.4 	Current law students who have successfully completed forty-two (42)
   credit hours of law school may appear before OAH, except that a law student
   who has been denied admission to practice before the District of Columbia
   Court of Appeals pursuant to its Rule 48 may not appear before OAH.  An
   Administrative Law Judge may terminate a law student’s representation under
   this Subsection at any time, for any reason, without notice or hearing.  A
   law student practicing under this Subsection shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (a) 	Be enrolled in a law school approved by the American Bar Association;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (b) 	Have the consent and oversight of a supervising attorney assigned to the
   law student;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (c) 	Sign and file a Notice of Appearance in the case with the supervising
   attorney;
   
   
   
   
   
   (d) 	Have the written permission of the client, which must be filed in the
   record;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (e) 	Not file any paper unless the law student and supervising attorney sign
   it;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (f)	Not appear at any proceeding without the supervising attorney;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (g) 	Neither ask for nor receive a fee of any kind for any services provided
   under this rule, except for the payment of any regular salary made to the law
   student; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (h) 	Comply with any limitations ordered by the presiding Administrative Law
   Judge.

   2833.5. An attorney supervising a law student who appears pursuant to
   Subsection 2833.4 shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (a)	Be an active member in good standing of the District of Columbia Bar;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (b) 	Assume full responsibility for supervising the law student;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (c) 	Sign and file a Notice of Appearance in the case with the law student;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (d) 	Assist the law student in preparation of the case, to the extent
   necessary in the supervising lawyer’s professional judgment to insure that
   the law student’s participation is effective on behalf of the person
   represented;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (e) 	Appear at all proceedings with the law student; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (f)	Review and sign any paper filed by the law student.

   2833.6. In addition to these Rules, the District of Columbia Rules of
   Professional Conduct shall govern the conduct of all attorneys and law
   students appearing before OAH.

   2833.7. The Chief Administrative Law Judge or presiding Administrative Law
   Judge may enter an order restricting the practice of any attorney appearing
   before OAH for good cause.  Such restrictions may include, without limitation:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (a)	Disqualification from a particular case;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (b)	Suspension or disqualification from practice before OAH;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (c)	A requirement that an attorney obtain ethics or other professional
   training or counseling; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (d)	A requirement that an attorney appear only when accompanied by another
   attorney with particular skills or a particular level of experience.

   2833.8. The attorney shall be given notice and opportunity to be heard either
   before the imposition of a restriction, or as soon thereafter as is
   practicable.

   2833.9. An Administrative Law Judge’s authority under Subsection 2833.7 is
   limited to restricting the practice of an attorney in a pending case based on
   the conduct of the attorney in that case.  Nothing in this Section limits the
   authority of the Chief Administrative Law Judge to enter a separate order
   restricting an attorney’s practice before OAH.

   2833.10. Any attorney appearing before OAH in a representative capacity under
   this Section shall provide under his or her signature, the attorney’s
   District of Columbia bar number, office address, and telephone and fax
   numbers.  Persons appearing (or applying to appear) under Subsections 2833.2
   or 2833.4 shall state, immediately under their signature, the Subsection under
   which they are appearing (or applying to appear), their office address, and
   telephone and fax numbers.  Persons appearing under Subsection 2833.2 shall
   state the jurisdiction of their admission and shall provide the bar number, if
   any, from that jurisdiction, and their office address, and telephone and fax
   numbers.

   2833.11. A member of any bar may not qualify as a non-attorney representative
   under Section 2835.  An attorney representing a party may testify only as
   permitted by Rule 3.7 of the District of Columbia Rules of Professional
   Conduct.

   2833.12. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in these Rules, no person
   who has been punished for unauthorized practice of law or who is subject to an
   injunction pursuant to Rule 49(e)(2) of the Rules of the District of Columbia
   Court of Appeals may represent a party.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 6399 (June 25, 2004); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 8595 (September 3, 2004); as amended
   by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 12541, 12566 (December 31,
   2010).
