                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEVIATIONS FROM SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS (ยง 27-2504)

2504.1. When the exceptions set forth in ยง 2503 are not applicable, and an
   existing specification does not meet an agency&#8217;s minimum needs, the
   agency head may authorize deviations in accordance with this section.

   2504.2. Each contracting officer shall be responsible for ensuring the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That District specifications are normally used, and requirements for
   exceptions and deviations are complied with;
   
   
   
   (b)	That written justifications for each exception and deviation are subject
   to prior review and approval by the agency head, and that each justification
   can be fully substantiated if post audit is required;
   
   
   
   (c)	That major or repeated deviations are not taken except as prescribed in
   this chapter; and
   
   
   
   (d)	That notification of each deviation or recommendation for change in
   specification is sent promptly in duplicate to the Director.

   2504.3. Deviations reported by the contracting officer in accordance with ยง
   2504.2(d) shall not be continued except as authorized by the Director in
   accordance with this section.

   2504.4. When an agency submits notification to the Director of major or
   repeated deviations that have been taken but makes no recommendation for
   change in the specification, the Director shall notify the agency whether
   those deviations may be continued in subsequent contracting.

   2504.5. In cases where continued deviations are not approved by the Director,
   and the contracting agency has progressed to a point where it would be
   impracticable to amend or cancel the procurement, the procurement may be
   completed, but the deviation shall not be continued by the agency in
   subsequent procurements.

   2504.6. When an agency has recommended changing the specifications consistent
   with the deviations it has taken and reported, those deviations may be
   continued until the recommended change is incorporated in the specifications
   or the agency is notified otherwise in accordance with ยง2504.7.

   2504.7. When coordination with other agencies and industry does not result in
   acceptance of the change, the deviations shall not be continued by the agency
   in subsequent contracts after notification by the Director that the request
   for change of specifications has been denied.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1575 (February 26, 1988).
