                                  DC REGULATIONS

SELECTING SPECIFICATIONS OR DESCRIPTIONS FOR USE (ยง 27-2501)

2501.1. Items to be procured shall be described by citing the applicable
   specifications and standards or by a description containing the necessary
   requirements.

   2501.2. The requesting agency shall review and select from available
   specifications, standards, and related documents those specifications and
   standards which have application to a particular procurement. The
   specification or standard shall be modified or tailored to state the
   District&#8217;s minimum requirement.

   2501.3. When authorized in accordance with this chapter, or when no applicable
   specification exists, the requesting agency may use a purchase description.

   2501.4. Each purchase description shall set forth the essential physical and
   functional characteristics of the materials or services required.

   2501.5. Each purchase description shall include the following characteristics,
   when applicable:
   
   
   
   (a)	Common nomenclature;
   
   
   
   (b)	Kind of material, such as type, grade, or alternatives;
   
   
   
   (c)	Electrical data, if any;
   
   
   
   (d)	Dimensions, size, or capacity;
   
   
   
   (e)	Principles of operation;
   
   
   
   (f)	Restrictive environmental conditions;
   
   
   
   (g)	Intended use, such as location within an assembly and essential operating
   condition;
   
   
   
   (h)	Equipment with which the item is to be used; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Other pertinent information that further describes the item, materials, or
   service required.

   2501.6. A purchase description shall not be written to specify a product, or a
   particular feature of a product, that is peculiar to a single manufacturer
   (thereby precluding consideration of a product manufactured by another
   company) unless it is determined that the particular feature is essential to
   the District&#8217;s requirements, and that other sources&#8217; similar
   products lacking that particular feature would not meet the minimum
   requirements for the items.

   2501.7. Purchase descriptions of services shall outline the specific services
   the contractor is expected to perform to the greatest degree practicable.

   2501.8. When applicable, the requesting agency shall include in the purchase
   description requirements for adequate packaging and marking of goods to
   prevent deterioration and damage during shipping, handling, and storage.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1573 (February 26, 1988).
