                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICANT ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA (§ 14-3701)

3701.1. An applicant is eligible for participation in the Home Purchase
   Assistance Step Up Program if the applicant, at the time of application:
   
   
   
   (1)	Is a District of Columbia resident;
   
   
   
   (2)	Is the head of the household in a property purchased with District of
   Columbia housing purchase assistance;
   
   
   
   (3)	Will occupy the property to be purchased with Step Up Program assistance
   as his or her primary residence for the duration of the loan;
   
   
   
   (4)	Will sell or otherwise dispose of all interest in any other real property
   before the closing of any loan under the Step Up Program;
   
   
   
   (5)	Has a satisfactory credit rating and shall have the capacity, as
   determined by the Department, to pay the first and second mortgage loan
   payments monthly;
   
   
   
   (6)	Is not in default on any prior District of Columbia housing assistance
   loan;
   
   
   
   (7)	Has adequate income to qualify for a mortgage from a private lender;
   
   
   
   (8)	Has insufficient savings to pay the down payment or reasonable closing
   costs, or both, without assistance from the Program;
   
   
   
   (9)	Has gross household income within the lower or moderate income levels;
   
   
   
   (10)	Would have liquid assets not to exceed two (2) months after purchasing
   property with assistance from this program.

   3701.2. No member of the applicant’s household shall own any improved real
   estate that is or can be used for residential purposes within the Washington,
   D.C. Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area.

   3701.3. The applicant shall have available to contribute to the down payment
   or closing costs, and shall commit same toward the purchase of a single family
   housing unit, one (1) of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	For lower income applicants, fifty percent (50%) of all household assets
   in excess of one thousand dollars ($ 1,000) that are in a form capable of
   ready conversion into cash, whichever larger, but not less than five hundred
   dollars ($ 500);
   
   
   
   (b)	For moderate income applicants, not less than three percent (3%) percent
   of the purchase price, or fifty percent (50%) of all household assets in
   excess of one thousand dollars ($ 1,000) that are in a form capable of ready
   conversion into cash, whichever is larger, but not less than one thousand
   dollars ($ 1,000).

   3701.4. The household contribution under § 3701.3 may be waived or reduced by
   the Director where there is demonstrated need and the applicant household is
   elderly, handicapped, disabled, or a displaced household.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9717, 9718-20
   (December 8, 2000).
