                                  DC REGULATIONS

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF LOANS (ยง 14-3704)

3704.1. Loans made under this Program are repayable at an interest rate of at
   least three percent (3%). The Director may adjust the interest rate as needed
   to support the objective of the program.

   3704.2. Loans made under this Program shall require repayment of the principal
   loan amount and interest in monthly payments with the loan being amortized
   over a maximum of twenty (20) years.

   3704.3. Loans made under this Program shall be secured by a lien or
   subordinated trust on the property purchased and by other security instruments
   deemed appropriate by the Director.

   3704.4. Loans made under the Program shall require that the entire unpaid
   principal amount of the loan be repaid upon the sale or transfer of ownership
   of the property to another owner, or upon the refinancing of any other
   indebtedness secured on the property, if the refinancing shall result in any
   withdrawal of cash or equity value from the property by the loan recipient.

   3704.5. In the event of the death of the original loan recipient, the loan may
   be transferred to another low or moderate income household member who has
   resided in the property for at least one (1) year and who will continue to
   occupy the property as his or her primary residence. In the event of such
   transfer, all of the original terms of the loan agreement shall remain in
   force and effect.

   3704.6. The terms of each loan made under the Program shall provide that the
   principal amount of the loan shall become due and payable whenever the loan
   recipient ceases to occupy the property purchased as his primary residence.

   3704.7. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the terms of each
   loan made under the Program shall provide the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the loan recipient is required to maintain the property purchased in
   compliance with the Housing Code of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	That the Department may require an acceleration of payments under the loan
   in the event of default under the terms of the Note, Loan Agreement or Deed of
   Trust;
   
   
   
   (c)	That the Note, Loan Agreement, Deed of Trust, Financing Statement, and all
   other legal documents evidencing and securing the loan shall contain such
   other provisions as are normal and customary, and do not conflict with the
   rules and other District of Columbia law.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9717, 9721-22
   (December 8, 2000).
