                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPEARANCES AND REPRESENTATION (ยง 31-227)

227.1. In any proceeding, appearances and representations shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	An individual, receiver, trustee, or official may appear in his or her own
   behalf;
   
   
   
   (b)	A general partner of a partnership may represent the partnership;
   
   
   
   (c)	An officer of a corporation may represent the corporation;
   
   
   
   (d)	A member or employee of an organization, association or non-profit
   corporation may represent the organization, association or non-profit
   corporation; and
   
   
   
   (e)	An official of a federal, District, or state commission or other
   governmental agency may represent that commission or governmental agency.

   227.2. Any individual appearing before or transacting business with the Panel
   in a representative capacity shall establish authority to act in that
   capacity.

   227.3. A person may be represented in any proceeding before the Panel by an
   attorney at law admitted to practice before the District of Columbia Court of
   Appeals, or in accordance with the rules of the District of Columbia Court of
   Appeals.

   227.4. In any proceeding before the Panel, if a party is represented by more
   than one (1) attorney or person, that party shall, at the time it first
   appears before or files with the Panel, designate which one (1) of those
   attorneys or persons is authorized to receive service on behalf of that party.
   Service to that designated representative shall be considered to be service to
   all representatives of that party as well as to that party.

   227.5. The Panel may disqualify, or deny, temporarily or permanently, the
   privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way, to any individual
   who is found by the Panel, after hearing, either to be lacking in the
   requisite qualifications to represent others or in character or integrity or
   to have engaged in unethical, improper, or unprofessional conduct. In
   particular, no person shall willfully mislead the Panel or its staff by a
   false statement or fact or law.

   227.6. Persons who appear in a representative capacity in any proceeding shall
   file a written notice of appearance with the Secretary on the first occasion
   of appearance, stating for whom the appearance is made. The written notice
   shall be part of the record.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6715, 6728 (October 23, 1987).
