                                  DC REGULATIONS

EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS (§ 31-225)

225.1. No interested person shall, with respect to any case initiated pursuant
   to § 220, make, or knowingly cause to be made, to any member of the Panel,
   Office, or of the Commission, or personal assistant to a member of the
   Commission, any ex parte communication while the proceeding is pending before
   the Panel.

   225.2. The provisions of § 225.1 shall not apply to any of the following
   communications:
   
   
   
   (a)	Those specifically authorized by law to be made on an ex parte basis;
   
   
   
   (b)	Those related to a matter of procedure; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Those made in the course of another proceeding of the Commission or Panel
   to which it primarily relates, and is on the public record.

   225.3. Any person, including employees of the Commission, may apply to the
   Secretary for an advisory opinion as to whether any provision of this section
   is applicable to a communication.

   225.4. A proceeding is considered pending before the Panel when it is noticed
   for hearing, or when a communicator who reasonably believes it will be noticed
   for hearing obtains such knowledge (but not before the proceeding is
   docketed).

   225.5. A proceeding shall end when the Panel&#8217;s decision becomes final
   for purposes of judicial review.

   225.6. If a proceeding is phased or segmented so that one (1) or more parts of
   the proceeding constitute distinct matters, the Panel may, by order, provide
   that each phase or segment shall constitute a separate proceeding for purpose
   of §§ 220 to 256.

   225.7. A member of the Commission, Panel, or personal assistant to a member of
   the Commission, or person appointed by the General Counsel who receives an ex
   parte communication prohibited by this section shall, within forty-eight (48)
   hours after first having reason to believe that the communication is
   prohibited, prepare and deliver to the Secretary a written statement setting
   forth the substance of the communication if it is in oral form, or deliver to
   the Secretary the actual communication if it is in written form.

   225.8. The Secretary shall place any statement or communication in the public
   files associated with the proceeding, but separate from the record upon which
   the Panel will rely in reaching its decision. The Secretary shall mail to each
   person on the official service list of the proceeding a copy of any such
   statement or communication.

   225.9. If the Panel determines that a communication was knowingly made, or
   caused to be made, by the party acting in violation of this section, the Panel
   may, to the extent consistent with the interests of justice and the policies
   underlying this section, require the party to show cause why his or her claim
   or interest in the proceeding should not be dismissed, denied, or otherwise
   adversely affected.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6715, 6725 (October 23, 1987).
