                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRE-HEARING CONFERENCE (ยง 31-236)

236.1. The Panel shall give notice directing all parties to attend a
   pre-hearing conference.

   236.2. At least five (5) calendar days before the pre-hearing conference, each
   party shall serve and file a statement of proposed issues and order of
   procedure with the Panel.

   236.3. The parties to the proceeding, or their representatives, and
   representatives of the Panel and staff of the Commission designated by it for
   the purpose, shall be given notice of the conference.

   236.4. The purpose of the pre-hearing conference shall be to do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Formulate the issues;
   
   
   
   (b)	Arrange for the exchange of proposed exhibits;
   
   
   
   (c)	Make any necessary amendments to the pleadings;
   
   
   
   (d)	Obtain admissions of fact and of documents which will avoid unnecessary
   proof;
   
   
   
   (e)	Determine the number of witnesses;
   
   
   
   (f)	Set forth any extraordinary rule of procedure for the conduct of the
   hearing;
   
   
   
   (g)	Adopt a procedural schedule for the proceedings; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Pursue any other matters, which may aid in the disposition of the
   proceeding.

   236.5. Any agreements reached at the conference by the parties shall be
   promptly reduced to writing by the Secretary and submitted to the Panel for
   approval.

   236.6. Any participant who fails to attend a pre-hearing conference of which
   the participant had due notice shall, with respect to any matter reasonably
   encompassed in the notice of the pre-hearing conference, be deemed to have
   waived any objections to any agreement reached, or ruling made thereon at the
   conference.

   236.7. At the conclusion of the pre-hearing conference, the Panel shall issue,
   as soon thereafter as possible, an Order and Report on Pre-hearing Conference,
   which includes the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Designation of the parties;
   
   
   
   (b)	Setting forth the issues to be decided in the hearing;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any extraordinary rules or procedure;
   
   
   
   (d)	The procedural schedule of the proceeding; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Date, time, place and attendees.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6715, 6734 (October 23, 1987).
