                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT DURING PROCEEDINGS (ยง 31-228)

228.1. In addition to the requirements of ยง 225 any attorney who participates
   in any proceeding before the Panel shall comply with the rules of the Panel
   and shall adhere to the standards of ethical conduct required of attorneys
   before the courts of the District of Columbia and the District of Columbia
   Code of Professional Responsibility.

   228.2. No restrictions in this section shall preclude an attorney from
   replying to charges of misconduct publicly made against him or her, or from
   participating in the proceedings of legislative, administrative, or other
   investigative bodies.

   228.3. In all proceedings before the Panel, no attorney, other than the
   Commission&#8217;s General Counsel, shall communicate, or cause another to
   communicate as to the merits of the case with any Commissioner before whom the
   proceeding is pending, except as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	In the course of official proceedings in the case; or
   
   
   
   (b)	In writing directed to the Secretary with copies served upon all other
   parties.

   228.4. It is improper for any party, or person representing a party, in a case
   before the Panel to attempt to sway the judgment of the Panel in that case by
   undertaking directly or indirectly, through a third party outside the hearing
   process, to bring pressure or influence to bear upon the Panel or its staff.

   228.5. Requests for expeditious treatment of matters pending with the Panel
   are improper except when filed with the Secretary with copies served upon all
   parties or unless made before the Panel at a hearing.

   228.6. No member of the Commission, Panel, or Office shall invite or knowingly
   entertain any prohibited ex parte communication, or make any communication to
   any party, counsel or agent of a party, or any other person who he or she has
   reason to know may transmit that communication to a party or a party&#8217;s
   agent.

   228.7. The Panel may disqualify and deny temporarily or permanently, the
   privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way to any individual
   who, after a hearing, is found to have violated the requirements of this
   section. Violations of the requirements of this section by attorneys shall be
   referred to the appropriate District of Columbia Bar Committee for
   investigation.

   228.8. Conduct amounting to contempt at any hearing before the Panel shall be
   grounds for exclusion from the hearing and for summary suspension without a
   hearing for the duration of the hearing or of the proceeding, or any part
   thereof.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6715, 6729 (October 23, 1987).
