                                  DC REGULATIONS

COST REPORTING AND RECORD MAINTENANCE (§ 29-4106)

Each ICF/IID shall report costs annually to DHCF no later than ninety (90) days
after the end of the provider’s cost reporting period, which shall correspond
to the fiscal year used by the provider for all other financial reporting
purposes, unless DHCF has approved an exception.  All cost reports shall cover a
twelve (12) month cost reporting period unless the facility obtains advance
permission from DHCF to allow an alternative reporting period, for good cause.







           In accordance with instructions from DHCF, providers shall file an
initial interim cost report.







            A cost report that is not completed in accordance with the
requirements of this section shall be considered an incomplete filing, and DHCF
shall notify the ICF/IID within thirty (30) days of the date on which DHCF
received the incomplete cost report.







            DHCF shall issue a delinquency notice if the ICF/IID does not submit
the cost report as specified in § 4106.1 and has not previously received an
extension of the deadline for good cause.







            Late submission of cost reports shall result in a refundable
withholding of an amount equal to seventy-five percent (75%) of the facility’s
total payment for the month that the cost report was due, and the same amount
shall be withheld each month until the cost report is received.







            The costs described in § 4102 shall be reported on a cost report
template developed by DHCF. The cost report shall be completed in accordance
with accompanying instructions. The cost report instructions shall include, at
minimum, guidelines and standards for determining and reporting allowable costs.







            If the ICF/IID utilizes outside resources pursuant to § 4103.2,
the ICF/IID shall submit the cost reports or invoices provided by the outside
resources as an attachment to the submitted cost report required under
§ 4106.6.  Where the active treatment program is provided in house, the
provider shall provide its own cost report in the active treatment section of
the cost report.







            In the absence  of specific instructions or definitions contained in
the accompanying regulations, cost report forms, and instructions, the treatment
and allowability of costs shall be determined in accordance with the Medicare
Principles of Reimbursement, 42 C.F.R. Part 413, and the interpretation found in
the relevant Provider Reimbursement Manual.







            Any allocated time claimed under § 4102.3(a)(5) shall be supported
by contemporaneous time sheets attested to by the persons concerned, or a random
moment time study designed and reviewed by an independent firm.  Such
documentation shall be submitted with the cost report in support of all amounts
claimed.







            All of the facility’s accounting and related records, including
the general ledger and records of original entry, and all transaction documents
and statistical data, shall be permanent records and be retained for a period of
not less than five (5) years after the filing of a cost report.







            If the records relate to a cost reporting period under audit or
appeal, records shall be retained until the audit or appeal is complete.







            In accordance with § 4100.9, the ICF/IID shall disclose a list of
related organizations, associated amounts, and the reason(s) for payment to each
related organization in the cost report.







Costs incurred during a period when an ICF/IID is subject to denial of payment
for new admissions, described in § 4112, shall be included on the cost report
for the period during which payment was denied, in order to accurately determine
rates in subsequent periods.



SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 11590 (August 9, 2013).
