                                  DC REGULATIONS

FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY (§ 29-4107)

Beginning in FY 2014, except for the Administration cost center, each facility
shall spend at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the rate under each cost
center on service delivery to Medicaid individuals.  Facilities expending less
than ninety-five percent (95%) of each cost center shall be subject to repayment
requirements.







Beginning in FY 2014, each ICF/IID shall spend one hundred percent (100%) of the
rate for Active Treatment on service delivery to Medicaid individuals. 
Facilities expending less than one hundred percent (100%) of the rate for Active
Treatment shall be subject to repayment requirements.







            DHCF shall evaluate expenditures subject to the requirements in this
section through annual review of cost reports.







           The repayment amount described in § 4107.1 shall be the difference
between ninety-five percent (95%) of the rate component and reported expenses
plus the administrative percentage of thirteen percent (13%). The repayment
amount described in § 4107.2 shall be the difference between one hundred
percent (100%) of the payments made for active treatment services and reported
expenses for active treatment services.







            DHCF, or its designee, shall review each cost report for
completeness, accuracy, compliance, and reasonableness through a desk audit.







On-site audits shall be conducted not less than once every three (3) years. 
Each ICF/IID shall allow access, during on-site audits or review by DHCF or U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services auditors, to relevant financial records
and statistical data to verify costs previously reported to DHCF.







DHCF shall issue a notice to each ICF/IID that is required to repay as set forth
in this section. The notice shall set forth the repayment amount and include
language describing the procedure and timeframes for requesting an appeal before
OAH. Filing an appeal with OAH shall not stay any action to recover the amounts
prescribed in this section.



SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 11590 (August 9, 2013).
