                                  DC REGULATIONS

DENIAL OF PAYMENT (§ 29-4112)

Pursuant to Section 1902(i) of the Act and 42 C.F.R. § 442.118, and in lieu of
termination in situations where residents are not in immediate jeopardy, DHCF
may initiate a one-time denial of payment for claims associated with new
admissions at ICFs/IID that fail to comply with one (1) or more of the CoPs for
Medicaid enrollment.







            The denial of payment term shall be eleven (11) months in duration,
beginning on the first day of the month after DHCF imposes the denial of
payments.







            DHCF shall also deny payment to ICFs/IID if DOH previously initiated
enforcement actions due to immediate jeopardy, and the facility has failed to
mitigate the circumstances that caused immediate jeopardy.







            DHCF, in coordination with DOH, shall notify the ICF/IID that it is
subject to denial of payment.  The written notification shall indicate the
following:







The ICF/IID has up to sixty (60) days to correct the cited deficiencies; and







The procedures that shall commence once the sixty (60) days have lapsed,
pursuant to § 4112.5.







            If the ICF/IID does not correct the violations within the sixty (60)
day timeframe, DHCF shall notify the facility of its intention to deny payment. 
This written notification shall include:







Reasons for denial of payment;







Information on the right to request a hearing though OAH, pursuant to 29 DCMR
§§ 1300 et seq.;







Details of public notice; and







The effective date for denial of payments.







            If an ICF/IID appeals DHCF’s decision to deny payment, DHCF shall
notify the provider that the effective date of the sanction, established in
§ 4112.2, shall be suspended until the appeal is resolved.







            If denial of payment is upheld at the appeal, the DHCF shall notify
the facility and the public at least thirty (30) days before the newly
established effective date of the sanction.







            DHCF, in coordination with other District agencies, shall monitor
the facility’s progress in improving cited violation(s) throughout the eleven
(11) month period.







          The Director of DHCF shall consider modifying or rescinding denial of
payment upon the occurrence of one of the following:







Circumstances have changed and resulted in alterations of the CoPs violation(s)
in such a manner as to immediately jeopardize patient health and safety; or







The ICF/IID achieves full compliance with the CoPs in fewer than eleven (11)
months; or







The ICF/IID makes significant progress in achieving compliance with the CoPs
through good faith efforts.







           DHCF shall terminate the provider agreement of an ICF/IID that has
been unable to achieve compliance with the CoPs during the full eleven (11)
month period of denial of payment.  Termination shall be effective on the first
day following the last day of the denial payment period.







            An ICF/IID provider agreement that is subject to denial of payment
shall be automatically extended for the eleven (11) month period if the provider
agreement does not lapse on or before the effective date of denial of payments.







            ICF/IID provider agreements that are subject to denial of payment
may only be renewed when the denial period expires or is rescinded.



SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 11590 (August 9, 2013).
