                                  DC REGULATIONS

ALTERNATIVE SANCTIONS FOR ICFSIID-NON-IMMEDIATE JEOPARDY (§ 29-4111)

In accordance with Section 1902(i)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act, the
   District of Columbia may impose alternative sanctions against an ICF/IID when
   that facility fails to meet the CoPs, but the violation does not place
   beneficiary health or safety in immediate jeopardy.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
               In lieu of terminating the provider agreement, DHCF may impose one
   (1) or more alternative sanctions against an ICF/IID as set forth below:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Denial of payment, as described in § 4112;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Directed Plan of Correction (DPoC), as described in § 4113;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Directed In-Service Training (DIST), as described in § 4114; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   State Monitoring, as described in § 4115.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
               DHCF shall determine the appropriateness of alternative sanctions
   against an ICF/IID upon notification by the Department of Health that an
   ICF/IID is not in compliance with any of the federal CoPs. A determination to
   terminate a provider from the Medicaid program, or to impose an alternative
   sanction shall be made based on the following factors:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Seriousness of the violation(s);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Number and nature of the violation(s);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Potential for immediate and serious threat(s) to ICF/IID residents;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Potential for serious harm to ICF/IID residents;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any history of prior violation(s) and/or sanction(s);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Actions or recommendations of DDS, developmental disability advocacy groups,
   or health care entities;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Mitigating circumstances; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Other relevant factors.

   4111.4. DHCF shall issue a written notice to each ICF/IID notifying the
   facility of termination of the Medicaid provider agreement or the imposition
   of an alternative sanction. The written notice shall comply with District and
   federal law and rules.

   4111.5. All costs associated with the imposition of an alternative sanction
   against an ICF/IID pursuant to these rules shall be borne by the facility.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 11590 (August 9, 2013).
