                                  DC REGULATIONS

UTILIZATION REVIEW REQUIREMENTS (§ 29-4109)

In accordance with 42 C.F.R. § 456.401, each ICF/IID shall develop, implement,
and maintain a written Utilization Review Plan (URP) for each Medicaid
beneficiary receiving services furnished by the ICF/IID. The URP shall provide
for a review of each beneficiary’s need for the services that the ICF
furnished him or her.







            Utilization  review for ICFs/IID enrolled in D.C. Medicaid may be
conducted by any of the following:







The ICF/IID;







DHCF or its designee; or







Any other approved method.







           The URP shall, at minimum, include the following:







A description of how utilization review shall be performed;







The frequency of utilization review;







Assurances and documentation establishing that the personnel who shall perform
utilization review meet the requirements of 42 C.F.R. § 456.406;







Administrative staff responsibilities related to utilization review;







The types of records maintained by the utilization review team;







The types and frequency of any reports developed by the utilization review team,
and related plan for dissemination; and







The procedures that shall be used when corrective action is necessary.







            In accordance  with 42 C.F.R. §§ 456.431 &#8211; 456.438, each URP
shall establish a process whereby each individual residing in the ICF/IID
receives continued stay reviews, at minimum, every six (6) months.







           The URP shall establish written methods and criteria used to conduct
continued stay reviews.  The URP shall also set forth enhanced criteria used to
assess a case if the individual’s circumstances reflect any of the following
associations:







High costs;







Frequent and excessive services; or







Attended by a physician or other practitioner whose practices reflect
questionable billing patterns or misrepresentation of facts needed in order to
secure claims reimbursement, including but not limited to ordering and/or
providing services that are not medically necessary or that fail to meet
professionally recognized standards of care.



SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 11590 (August 9, 2013).
