                                  DC REGULATIONS

RIGHT TO APPEAL (§ 29-4108)

DHCF shall issue a notice to each beneficiary when DHCF disapproves the acuity
level assignment submitted by the provider.  The notice shall comply with
District and federal law and rules.  A copy of the notice shall also be sent to
the provider.  If the beneficiary consents, a provider may appeal the
determination described in this section on behalf of the beneficiary.







            For Fiscal Years 2013 and after, DHCF shall send a transmittal to
all providers notifying them of the rates.







            Provider appeals shall be limited to challenges based on acuity
level assignments and audit adjustments.







            At the conclusion of each rebasing year audit or any other required
audit, an ICF/IID facility shall receive an audited cost report including a
description of each audit adjustment and the reason for each adjustment.  An
ICF/IID facility that disagrees with the audited cost report may request an
administrative review of the audited cost report by sending a written request
for administrative review to DHCF within thirty (30) days of the date of receipt
of the audited cost report.







            For annual cost reports submitted by the ICF/IID facility, any
determinations made following reviews conducted by DHCF shall be communicated to
the ICF/IID Facility within thirty (30) days.  Within thirty (30) days of the
date of receipt of the DHCF communication on the submitted annual cost report,
an ICF/IID facility that disagrees with the determination may request an
administrative review by sending a written request for administrative review to
DHCF.







           The written request for an administrative review shall include an
identification of the specific audit adjustment to be reviewed, the reason for
the request for review of each audit adjustment and supporting documentation.







            DHCF shall mail a formal response to the ICF/IID facility no later
than forty-five (45) days from the date of receipt of the written request for
administrative review.







            Decisions made by DHCF and communicated in the formal response may
be appealed, within thirty (30) days of the date of DHCF’s letter notifying
the facility of the decision, to OAH.







            Filing an appeal with OAH pursuant to this section shall not stay
any action to recover any overpayment to the ICF/IID, and the provider shall be
immediately liable to the program for overpayments set forth in the
Department’s decision.



SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 11590 (August 9, 2013).
