                                  DC REGULATIONS

ACUITY LEVEL (§ 29-4101)

4101.1. Reimbursement rates shall be differentiated based on the
   individual’s acuity level, as recommended by DDS, through the Level of Need
   Assessment and Risk Screening Tool (LON), and interdisciplinary teams of
   health and habilitation professionals, pursuant to the Individual Service Plan
   (ISP).

   4101.2. Acuity levels higher than Acuity Level 1 (Base), specific to the
   medical and health needs of each qualified individual, shall be requested by
   the ICF/IID, recommended by DDS, and approved by DHCF.

   4101.3. Reimbursement under this chapter shall be governed according to the
   following acuity levels:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Acuity Level 1 (Base) shall represent the health, habilitation, and
   support needs of a beneficiary whose level of care determination (LOC)
   reflects a need for ICF/IID services.  Acuity Level 1 shall be the base acuity
   level.
   
   
   
   (b) 	Acuity Level 2 (Moderate) shall represent the health, habilitation, and
   support needs of a beneficiary who:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Meets the requirements of § 4101.3(a); and
   
   
   
   (2) 	Requires moderate levels of services in order to effectively support
   functional impairments, as described in § 4101.7.
   
   
   
   (c) 	Acuity Level 3 (Extensive – Behavioral) shall represent the health,
   habilitation, and support needs of a beneficiary who:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Meets the requirements of § 4101.3(a); and
   
   
   
   (2) 	Requires services and interventions that can address conditions
   associated with an extensive intellectual and developmental disability and
   significant behavioral challenges as described in § 4101.8.
   
   
   
   (d) 	Acuity Level 4 (Extensive – Medical) shall represent the health,
   habilitation, and support needs of a beneficiary who:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Meets the requirements of § 4101.3(a); and
   
   
   
   (2) 	Requires services and interventions that can address conditions
   associated with a significant intellectual and developmental disability and
   significant medical and support challenges as described in § 4101.9.
   
   
   
   (e) 	Acuity Level 5 (Pervasive) shall represent the health, habilitation, and
   support needs of a beneficiary who:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Meets the requirements of § 4101.3;
   
   
   
   (2) 	Requires services and interventions that can address conditions
   associated with a significant intellectual and developmental disability; and
   
   
   
   (3) 	Exhibits dangerous behaviors or conditions that require one-to-one (1:1)
   supervision for twenty-four (24) hours per day or less, as described in
   § 4101.10.
   
   
   
   (f) 	Acuity Level 6 (Pervasive Plus Skilled Nursing) shall represent the
   health, habilitation, and support needs of a beneficiary who:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Meets the requirements of § 4101.3(a);
   
   
   
   (2) 	Requires services and interventions that can address conditions
   associated with a pervasive level of care to accommodate individuals with
   dangerous behaviors or conditions that require one to one (1:1) supervision
   twenty-four (24) hours per day; and
   
   
   
   (3) 	Requires extensive skilled nursing services as described in § 4101.11.

   4101.4. For purposes of reimbursement, a beneficiary admitted on or after
   October 1, 2012, shall be assumed to be at Acuity Level 1 (Base).  An ICF/IID
   may request through, and with supporting documentation by, DDS that DHCF
   assign a beneficiary to an enhanced level, above Acuity Level 1. This request
   must be accompanied by documentation submitted by the ICF/IID that justifies
   the enhanced acuity level.

   4101.5. In order for a beneficiary to qualify at an acuity level beyond Acuity
   Level 1 (Base), the ICF/IID shall ensure that qualified health and
   habilitation practitioners assess each beneficiary using the LON.

   4101.6. Acuity level assignments shall be recertified annually.

   4101.7. A beneficiary shall qualify for Acuity Level 2 (Moderate) when
   assessed to have at least one (1) of the following characteristics:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Is unable to perform two (2) or more activities of daily living (ADL);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Is non-ambulatory;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Is unable to evacuate self without assistance in the event of a fire or other
   emergency situation;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Is assessed to lack life safety skills to ensure self-preservation; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Has a diagnosis of one (1) of the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Blindness;
   
   
   
   (2) 	Deafness;
   
   
   
   (3) 	Autism Spectrum Disorder; or
   
   
   
   (4) 	Epilepsy.

   4101.8. A beneficiary shall qualify for Acuity Level 3 (Extensive –
   Behavioral) when he or she is dually diagnosed with an intellectual and
   developmental disability and with one (1) or more behavioral disorders that:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Are assaultive, self-abusive, including pica, or aggressive;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Require a Behavior Support Plan (BSP) which shall be based on current data and
   targets the identified behaviors; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Require intensive staff intervention and additional staff resources to manage
   the behaviors set forth in § 4101.8(a).

   4101.9. A beneficiary shall qualify for Acuity Level 4 (Extensive – Medical)
   when he or she requires skilled nursing and extensive health and habilitation
   supports on a daily basis.  Skilled nursing and extensive health and
   habilitation supports shall be prescribed by the individual’s primary care
   physician or advanced practice registered nurse (APRN).

   4101.10. A beneficiary shall qualify for Acuity Level 5 (Pervasive) when he or
   she requires one-to-one (1:1) staffing and exhibits one (1) or more of the
   following characteristics:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Has a history of, or is at high risk for, elopement resulting in risk to the
   beneficiary or others;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Exhibits behavior that is life-threatening to the beneficiary or others;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Exhibits destructive behavior that poses serious property damage, including
   fire-setting;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Is a sexual predator; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Has a history of, or is at high risk for, falls with injury and a primary care
   physician or advanced practice registered nurse order for one-to-one (1:1)
   supervision.

   4101.11. A beneficiary shall qualify for Level 6 (Pervasive Plus Skilled
   Nursing) if the beneficiary requires at least one (1) type of skilled nursing
   that shall be ordered by a primary care physician or advanced practice
   registered nurse and provided, at a minimum, on an hourly basis.

   4101.12. For a beneficiary who requires services at or above Acuity Level 4,
   the  prescription of the physician or advanced practice registered nurse,
   shall specify the type, frequency, scope, and duration of the skilled nursing
   and health and habilitation support services required.

   4101.13. The number of one-to-one (1:1) staffing hours shall be approved by
   DHCF using results from assessments conducted by ICFs/IID.  Under Levels 5 and
   6 (Pervasive and Pervasive Plus Skilled Nursing), DHCF’s approval shall be
   based on having staff member(s) assigned to the beneficiary who have no other
   duties while assigned to the beneficiary.

   4101.14. Each ICF/IID shall have responsible direct care staff on duty and
   awake on a twenty-four (24) hour basis when residents are present in the
   facility to ensure prompt, appropriate action in the event of injury, illness,
   fire, or other emergency.

   4101.15. Each ICF/IID shall be responsible for requesting renewal of the
   beneficiary’s acuity level assignment by compiling the beneficiary’s
   information in the required format(s) at least twenty (20) days before the ISP
   effective date.  Each ICF/IID shall ensure that the individual has an
   approved acuity level assignment by the ISP effective date. At minimum, the
   ICF/IID shall provide the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Level of Need Assessment and Risk Screening Tool (LON); and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Current ISP document including medical, psychological, occupational or
   physical therapy assessment.

   4101.16. Additional documentation shall be required to support the acuity
   level assignment for a beneficiary. Depending on acuity level, additional
   documentation shall be required as follows:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For Acuity Level 3 (Extensive – Behavioral) the following additional
   documentation is required:
   
   
   
   (1) 	A BSP addressing the targeted behaviors;
   
   
   
   (2) 	A written behavior plan that shall be based on current data and which
   targets the identified behaviors; and
   
   
   
   (3) 	A concise statement that summarizes thirty (30) days of behavioral data
   prior to the date of the request and justification of the need for intensive
   staff intervention and additional staff resources to manage targeted
   behaviors.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For Acuity Level 4 (Extensive – Medical) documentation that includes an
   order for daily skilled nursing and extensive health supports prepared by the
   beneficiary’s primary care physician or an advance practice registered nurse
   is required.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For Acuity Level 5 (Pervasive) the following additional documentation is
   required:
   
   
   
   (1) 	A concise statement setting forth the presenting problem that
   necessitates one to one (1:1) supervision and the number of requested one to
   one (1:1) hours;
   
   
   
   (2) 	Evidence of a history or risk of elopement that results in risk to the
   beneficiary and/or others;
   
   
   
   (3) 	Evidence of behavior that is life threatening to self and/or others;
   
   
   
   (4) 	Evidence of destructive behavior causing serious property damage,
   including fire starting;
   
   
   
   (5) 	Evidence of sexually predatory behavior;
   
   
   
   (6) 	Evidence of a history of, or risk of, falls with injury, and an order
   from the beneficiary’s primary care physician or APRN;
   
   
   
   (7) 	A BSP that shall be based on current data and targets the behaviors 
   identified;
   
   
   
   (8) 	A job description for one to one (1:1) staff based on the beneficiary’s
   individual needs; and
   
   
   
   (9) 	Thirty (30) days of behavioral data prior to the date of the request in
   support of the targeted behaviors.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For Acuity Level 6 (Pervasive plus Skilled Nursing) the following additional
   documentation is required:
   
   
   
   (1) 	An order for skilled nursing services prepared by the beneficiary’s
   primary care physician or APRN;
   
   
   
   (2) 	A concise statement setting forth the presenting problem that
   necessitates one to one (1:1) supervision and skilled nursing and the number
   of requested one to one (1:1) hours; and
   
   
   
   (3) 	A job description for one to one (1:1) staff based on the beneficiary’s
   individual needs.

   4101.17. Documentation required to review a beneficiary’s acuity level shall
   be submitted to DHCF within sixty (60) days of the event that necessitates
   assignment to a higher acuity level.

   4101.18. On a case-by-case basis, DHCF shall consider requests for retroactive
   adjustment to a beneficiary’s acuity level that may result in a change to
   the reimbursement rate.  DHCF decisions shall be based on the facility’s
   submission of  required documentation as set forth below:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A concise statement setting forth the situation that necessitates retroactive
   adjustment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Evidence of the higher acuity level for the specified period of time for which
   the change in acuity level is requested. This evidence shall include the LON
   and other clinical and professional documentation such as discharge planning
   notes, physician’s notes, other clinician’s notes, interdisciplinary team
   meeting notes, and healthcare reports for the same defined period of time; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Evidence that a higher level of service was delivered for the defined period
   and that the higher level of service delivered is that required for the higher
   acuity level. This evidence shall include documentation of staffing levels
   detailing hours and types of services delivered for each day in the defined
   period of time. Evidence shall also include the identity of the specific staff
   delivering the higher acuity services and an attestation from the staff of the
   higher acuity service they delivered.

   4101.19. Any retroactive adjustment based on § 4101.18 shall be limited to
   the time that has lapsed since the date of the beneficiary’s last continuous
   stay review, as set forth in § 4109.

   4101.20. Each ICF/IID shall notify DHCF of the transfer or death of a
   beneficiary at least seven (7) business days after the date of the event.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 11590 (August 9, 2013).
