                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (§ 29-4100)

4100.1. This chapter shall establish principles of reimbursement that shall
   apply to each intermediate care facility for individuals with intellectual
   disabilities (ICF/IID) participating in the District of Columbia Medicaid
   program.

   4100.2. For an ICF/IID to be eligible to receive reimbursement under this
   chapter, it shall be certified as an Intermediate Care Facility by the Health
   Regulation  and Licensing Administration (HRLA) in the Department of Health
   (DOH), pursuant to 22 DCMR §§ 3100 et seq. for a period up to fifteen (15)
   months.

   4100.3. Medicaid reimbursement to ICFs/IID for services provided beginning on
   or after October 1, 2012, shall be on a prospective payment system consistent
   with the requirements set forth in this chapter.

   4100.4. The Department of Health Care Finance (DHCF) shall pay for ICF/IID
   services through the use of rates that are reasonable and adequate to meet the
   costs that are incurred by efficiently, economically operated facilities in
   order to provide services in conformity with applicable District and federal
   laws, regulations, and quality and safety standards.  DHCF used the following
   financial principles in developing the reimbursement methodology described in
   this chapter:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Basing payment rates on the acuity of each individual;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Establishing uniform reimbursement of services constituting the active
   treatment program for individuals who meet the requirements of 42 C.F.R.
   § 483.440(a);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Establishing consistent payment rates for the same classes of facilities
   serving individuals with comparable levels of need; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Establishing one (1) day, inclusive of residential care and active
   treatment, as the unit of service.
   
   
   
   4100.5 The reimbursement rates paid to ICFs/IID for Medicaid individuals
   residing in the facility shall be equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the
   following components:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Residential component base rate determined by acuity level, as defined in
   § 4101 of this chapter, and inclusive of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Direct service;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All other health care and program related expenses;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Non-personnel operations;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Administration;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Non-Emergency Transportation;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Capital; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Allowable share of the Stevie Sellows Intermediate Care Facility for the
   Intellectually and Developmentally Disabled Quality Improvement Fund
   Assessment.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Services constituting an active treatment program, described in § 4103, as
   set forth in the individual’s Individual Service Plan (ISP); and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Payments associated with participation in quality improvement initiatives, as
   set forth in § 4104.

   4100.6. The reimbursement rates paid to ICFs/IID shall exclude all of the
   following services that are provided outside of the ICF/IID:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Inpatient and outpatient hospital visits;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Physician and specialty services;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Clinic services;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Emergency department services;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Services delivered by any other long-term care facility;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	Custom durable medical equipment that shall be solely for the use of one (1)
   individual (such as a specialized wheelchair); and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Prescription drug costs, excluding copays for individuals who are also subject
   to the Evans court order.

   4100.7. Medicaid reimbursement to each ICF/IID shall comply with the “Policy
   on Reserved Beds,” as set forth on page 2 of Attachment 4.19C of the State
   Plan for Medical Assistance.

   4100.8. An organization related to an enrolled ICF/IID (“related
   organization”) may furnish services and supplies under the prudent buyer
   concept, provided the costs of such services and supplies are consistent with
   costs of such items furnished by independent third party providers in the same
   geographic area.  These requirements shall apply to the sale, transfer,
   leaseback, or rental of property, plant, or equipment or purchase of services
   of any facility or organization.

   4100.9. In accordance with 42 C.F.R. § 456.360, the District of Columbia
   Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985, as amended, effective March 25, 1986
   (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1201.01 et seq.), and implementing
   rules, a qualified physician shall certify that an individual needs ICF/IID
   services.  The certification shall be made at the time of admission for
   current Medicaid individuals, or for individuals who apply for Medicaid while
   residing in an ICF/IID, before any payment is made to the facility.

   4100.10. Recertification of an individual’s need for continued ICF/IID
   services is required, at minimum, twelve (12) months following the date of the
   previous certification, pursuant to 42 C.F.R. § 456.360(b).

   4100.11. A Medicaid individual shall be assessed by an interdisciplinary team
   within thirty (30) days of admission to an ICF/IID.  This determination shall
   provide the foundation for requests to elevate an acuity level assignment
   beyond Acuity Level 1.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 11590 (August 9, 2013).
