                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPPLEMENTAL PAYMENTS FOR QUALITY OF CARE IMPROVEMENTS (§ 29-4104)

Consistent with the requirements set forth in the Stevie Sellows Intermediate
Care Facility for the Intellectually and Developmentally Disabled Quality
Improvement Act of 2005, effective March 8, 2006 (D.C. Law 16-68; D.C. Official
Code § 47-1270 et seq.), implementing rules, and subsequent amendments,
beginning in FY 2014 an ICF/IID that meets the criteria in this section shall be
eligible to receive a supplemental payment based on the cost of training
provided to employees other than managers, administrators, and contract
employees.







            In addition to the aggregate per diem described in § 4102, an
ICF/IID may receive an additional payment for participation in quality
improvement initiatives that are intended to increase the qualifications of
employees by making available educational opportunities.







           To qualify for a supplemental payment for quality improvements under
this Section for a fiscal year, an ICF/IID shall, by June 30 of the preceding
fiscal year, provide DHCF with documentation verifying that it:







Has a legally binding written agreement with its employees to fund quality of
care improvements through measurable efforts to develop and improve staff skills
by increasing staff training and educational opportunities;







Has written procedures outlining the process, such as arbitration, for employees
to follow to enforce this agreement.  The process shall:







Be expeditious;







Be economical for the employees; and







Provide for a neutral decision maker to resolve disputes; and







Has provided copies of the agreement and the written procedures to its employees
and their representatives.







            To establish the cost amount for purposes of determining the
facility’s supplemental payment amount, an ICF/IID shall provide DHCF with
documentation verifying the amount of training costs no later than June 30 of
the preceding fiscal year.







           The training cost amount shall include the cost of providing training
for employees other than managers, administrators, and contractors, and shall be
the actual costs incurred by the facility in providing training to these
employees.  For training costs to be included, the training shall be:







Related to patient care;







Related to improving the skills, competency, and qualifications of employees in
providing care; and







Approved by DHCF.







            In order to be eligible for the supplemental payment, an ICF/IID
shall incur costs and provide DHCF with evidence that payment has been made in
full.  Acceptable forms of evidence shall include a copy of any invoice(s) for
training costs and cancelled check(s) reflecting the facility’s payment of the
invoice(s).







            All supplemental payments shall be subject to a uniform percentage
of thirteen percent (13%) for administrative costs for FY 2013. The
administrative cost percentage may be adjusted in subsequent fiscal years.
Adjusted rates will be set forth in the D.C. Register.







            Supplemental payments associated with the costs of implementing
quality improvement initiatives shall be recorded as an offset to the costs
incurred, and shall be included in the cost report submitted annually.







           The supplemental payments described in this § shall not be used to
enhance training or educational opportunities for management, administration,
and contractual staff.







           The amount and availability of the supplemental payment shall be
contingent upon the availability of funding from DHCF.  If the total amount of
payments to be made to all eligible providers exceeds the amount of available
funds, then payments made to all eligible facilities shall be proportionately
reduced.







            DHCF shall issue a Notice of Eligibility and Proposed Reimbursement
to each provider within sixty (60) days of receipt of all required information.
The written  notice shall contain at a minimum all of the following information:







A determination indicating whether the provider is eligible or ineligible to
receive the supplemental payment;







If a provider is determined to be ineligible to receive the supplemental
payment, a written statement explaining why the facility is ineligible; and







Language describing the procedures and timeframes for requesting an
administrative review with DHCF.







A provider who disagrees with the Notice of Eligibility and Proposed
Reimbursement may request an administrative review by submitting a written
request for an administrative review to DHCF within thirty (30) days after the
date of the Notice of Eligibility and Proposed Reimbursement.







The written request for an administrative review shall include:







The reason(s) for the request, including an identification of the specific
item(s) to be reviewed; and







Supporting documentation.







No later than ninety (90) days after receipt of all requests for administrative
review DHCF shall issue a Final Notice of Eligibility and Reimbursement to each
provider that has applied for the supplemental payment.  The notice shall
contain at a minimum the following information:







A final determination indicating whether the provider is eligible to receive the
supplemental payment.  If ineligible, the notice shall contain a written
statement explaining why the provider is ineligible;







The total amount of the supplemental payment, including the annual salary,
benefit, and training cost amounts;







The annul number of employee hours excluding managers, administrators, and
contract employees;







The timeframe for payment of the supplemental payment; and







Language describing the procedures and timeframes for requesting an appeal with
the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH).







A provider who disagrees with the Final Notice of Eligibility and Reimbursement
may file an appeal with the OAH within forty-five (45) days of the date of the
Final Notice of Eligibility and Reimbursement.







Any adjustments to the supplemental payment as a result of a decision rendered
by the OAH shall be offset against payments the following fiscal year.













SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 11590 (August 9, 2013).
