                                  DC REGULATIONS

FAILURE TO APPEAR AT A HEARING AND ABSCONDENCE (§ 29-1208)

1208.1. After receiving notice, in accordance with § 1207, if the youth fails
   to appear at the stated time and place, for a Community Status Review Hearing
   the DYRS Care Manager responsible for the youth shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ask the Absconder’s Unit (MPD) to request a court order for the
   apprehension and return of the youth to the appropriate facility for failing
   to comply with official notice to appear at a given time and location;
   
   
   
   (b)	Note in the next progress report on the youth that the failure to appear
   for the scheduled hearing constitutes a violation of the Community Release
   Agreement; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Begin intensive efforts to locate the youth and return him or her to the
   appropriate facility. The DYRS Case Manager may ask for police assistance in
   apprehending the youth.

   1208.2. After having received notice, in accordance with § 1207, if a youth
   fails to appear at the stated time and place for a Community Status Hearing,
   the panel shall proceed.

   1208.3. If the panel proceeds with a hearing and rescinds the youth’s
   community status, upon the youth’s return the youth shall be held securely
   for up to five (5) business days pending a second Community Status Review
   Hearing.

   1208.4. The time limitations imposed by subsections 1202.2 and 1202.3 shall be
   tolled by the youth’s failure to appear for the scheduled hearing.

   1208.5. If a youth absconds from a DYRS community placement, the DYRS Case
   Worker shall inform the Chief of Committed Services or designee and request a
   custody order.

   1208.6. Upon the youth’s return to custody from abscondence, the DYRS Case
   Worker shall determine whether or not the youth’s community status should be
   reviewed at a hearing. If the youth is returned to DYRS after an arrest on a
   new charge, the Case Worker may take into account the decision of the Court
   concerning release status with respect to any new charges.

   1208.7. If the Case Worker determines that the youth should return to his or
   her community placement, the Case Worker shall determine whether to request a
   Community Status Review Hearing.

   1208.8. If the Case Worker determines that the youth who had absconded should
   be held in secure custody, the Case Worker shall provide the Chief of
   Committed Services or designee with documentation in support of his or her
   recommendation that the youth be securely held.

   1208.9. The Chief of Committed Services or designee shall make an independent
   probable cause determination within one (1) business day, based on the Case
   Worker’s documentation.

   1208.10. If the Chief of Committed Services or designee determines that there
   is probable cause to believe that the youth violated the terms of his or her
   Community Release Agreement and that he or she is a clear and present danger
   and requires immediate removal from a non-secure placement, DYRS shall conduct
   the Community Status Review Hearing within five (5) calendar days of the
   youth’s return from abscondence. If the fifth calendar day is a Sunday or
   legal holiday, the hearing shall convene the next business day.

   1208.11. If the Chief of Committed Services determines that there is no
   probable cause to securely confine the youth, DYRS shall return the youth to
   his or her community placement.

   1208.12. In cases where there is a no probable cause determination, the Case
   Worker may request a Community Status Review Hearing in accordance with
   subsection 1202.3.

   1208.13. The Chair of the Community Status Review Panel shall provide notice
   of the time, place and location of the Community Status Review Hearing to the
   youth, guardian(s), and counsel of record, consistent with § 1207.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 56 DCR 4756 (August 28, 2009).
