                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMMUNITY STATUS REVIEW (§ 29-1203)

1203.1. The DYRS Case Worker responsible for the youth who is arrested and
   charged with any criminal offense cited in subsection 1202.2, shall process
   the documentation for a Community Status Review Hearing within three (3)
   business days of notification of the arrest or latest violation.

   1203.2. During the three (3) business days mentioned in subsection 1203.1, the
   DYRS Case Worker shall complete all documentation, including a recommendation
   for the Community Status Review Hearing, and meet with the appropriate
   supervisor.

   1203.3. The DYRS Case Worker Supervisor or designee shall review services
   provided to the Youth and the basis for the Case Worker’s recommendation.

   1203.4. The DYRS Case Worker Supervisor or designee, after his or her review,
   may recommend:
   
   
   
   (a)	The DYRS Case Worker implement additional services;
   
   
   
   (b)	A Youth/Family Team Meeting; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The youth’s status be reviewed at a Community Status Review Hearing.

   1203.5. The DYRS Case Worker Supervisor or designee shall send the
   documentation to the Case Management Division Program Manager explaining the
   decision to convene a Community Status Review Hearing within one (1) business
   day of the DYRS Case Worker completing the documentation and meeting with the
   appropriate supervisor. The DYRS Case Worker shall place the documentation in
   the youth’s case file.

   1203.6. The DYRS Case Worker Supervisor or designee shall transmit all of the
   documentation to the Case Management Division Program Manager.  This
   documentation shall detail the circumstances of the arrest, charges, or
   violations of the Community Release Agreement including:
   
   
   
   (a)	The date and time of the offense(s) or violation(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	The report of the arresting officer, if applicable;
   
   
   
   (c)	The nature and seriousness of the charge(s), arrest or violation(s);
   
   
   
   (d)	The progress of the youth in community placement before the offense or
   violation took place;
   
   
   
   (e)	A copy of the Community Release Agreement with required signatures; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The Case Worker’s effort to identify and secure additional or
   alternative services that might be provided to the child in the community.

   1203.7. If a police report is provided, it shall also be included in the
   transmitted documentation. If a police report was not written, the
   documentation shall indicate the source of the information on which the Case
   Worker is relying.

   1203.8. All documentation shall be delivered to the Case Management Division
   Program Manager or designee. No more than four (4) business days should pass
   between the time DYRS is informed of the charge or violation and transmitting
   the documentation to the Case Management Division Program Manager or designee.

   1203.9. Unless the delay would result in undue prejudice to the youth, a
   failure of DYRS to meet any of the timelines established herein shall not be
   the sole reason affecting the decision or ability to conduct a community
   status review.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 56 DCR 4756 (August 28, 2009).
