                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITION (§ 29-1299)

1299.1. As used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   “Business day” &#8211; a day of the week consisting of Monday through
   Friday, and excludes Saturday, Sunday, any legal holiday, or inclement weather
   that results in a day in which the Court is closed. In addition, a business
   day is calculated beginning on the day after the triggering event occurs.
   
   
   
   “Case Management Division Program Manager” &#8211; a DYRS employee who
   supervises the Case Management Unit in the Committed Services Administration.
   The Program Manager supervises all of the managers who supervise DYRS Case
   Workers.
   
   
   
   “Chief of Committed Services” &#8211; a DYRS employee who supervises the
   Committed Services Administration, which includes the Oak Hill Youth Center,
   the Case Management Division, the Judicial Processing Unit, and the Community
   Residential Programs Unit.
   
   
   
   “Clear and Present Danger” &#8211; the absence or lack of basic
   necessities such as food, shelter, or clothing; suicidal actions, tendencies
   or threats of suicide; serious de-compensating emotional character and mental
   health; seriously destructive behavior creating an imminent danger to one’s
   life or health; or engaged in abusive or threatening, or other dangerous
   conduct thereby creating an imminent danger to self or others.
   
   
   
   “Community Release Agreement” &#8211; an agreement between the youth and
   DYRS, that the youth and his/her guardian will agree to certain rules in
   exchange for being released to the community.  This agreement was formerly
   called an aftercare agreement.
   
   
   
   “Community Placement or Community Status” &#8211; a status conferred upon
   a youth who has been committed to the legal custody of DYRS and housed in the
   community in a non-secure placement.
   
   
   
   “Community Status Review Hearing” &#8211; an administrative process to
   evaluate recommendations for modifying a youth’s community placement.
   
   
   
   “Community Status Review Panel” &#8211; a group of impartial DYRS
   employees who are responsible for reviewing the community placement status of
   a youth.
   
   
   
   “Community Program Specialist” &#8211; a DYRS employee responsible for
   scheduling Community Status Review Hearings and is the Chair as well as a
   member of the Community Status Review Panel.
   
   
   
   “DYRS Case Worker” &#8211; a DYRS employee who provides case management
   services to a case load of youth committed to DYRS by the courts.
   
   
   
   “DYRS Case Worker Supervisor” &#8211; a DYRS employee who supervises a
   unit of four to six DYRS Case Workers.
   
   
   
   “Emergency Removal” &#8211; immediate removal from the community and
   subsequent placement in a more restrictive setting after a determination has
   been made that the youth presents a clear and present danger to himself or
   others.
   
   
   
   “Guardian” &#8211; a natural or adoptive parent whose parental rights have
   not been judicially terminated, a person appointed by the court, or legal
   custodian.
   
   
   
   “Non-Secure Placement” &#8211; a community placement which is not locked
   and which allows for unsupervised movement in and out of the placement and
   allows youth to participate in various community activities, such as school,
   employment or other activities consistent with the youth’s Community Release
   Agreement.
   
   
   
   “Probable Cause” &#8211; a reasonable belief that an event or action
   occurred or existed, or is likely to occur or exist.
   
   
   
   “Secure Facility” &#8211; a locked residential placement which provides
   treatment and/or educational programs within the facility and does not allow
   for unsupervised movement within or outside of the facility.
   
   
   
   “Youth/Family Team Meeting” &#8211; a group of individuals involved in the
   case planning and development of treatment and educational plans for the youth
   and family.
   
   
   
   “Violation” &#8211; an act that is non-compliant with the terms of the
   Community Release Agreement.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 56 DCR 4756 (August 28, 2009).
