                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE OF INSTALLATION OF CABLE FACILITIES (§ 15-3003)

3003.1. Before installing cable television facilities or equipment or
   residential rental property, the cable operator shall serve written notice to
   the owner, or authorized agent of the property, of the cable operator&#8217;s
   intent to install cable television facilities and equipment. The notice shall
   be served by certified mail fifteen (15) days before the schedule installation
   date.

   3003.2. The following information shall be contained in the notice:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the cable television operator;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name and address of the owner or authorized agent of the property;
   
   
   
   (c)	The approximate date of the installation;
   
   
   
   (d)	A description of the proposed method of installation of sufficient detail
   to enable the owner to respond as required under §3004.1;
   
   
   
   (e)	A copy of D.C. Code §43-1844.1 (1981 Ed.);
   
   
   
   (f)	A citation to this chapter;
   
   
   
   (g)	A statement that the cable television operator, after notice to the owner
   or authorized agent of the property, has the right to enter the property to
   make surveys or conduct other investigations to prepare for installation and
   that the cable television operator shall be liable to the owner for any
   damages caused by the entry;
   
   
   
   (h)	A statement that installation of cable television facilities shall conform
   to those reasonable conditions and architectural controls set forth in writing
   by the owner as being necessary to protect the safety, functioning, appearance
   of the premises, and the convenience and well-being of other tenants;
   
   
   
   (i)	A statement that the cable television operator or the tenant or a
   combination thereof shall bear the cost of the installation, operation or
   removal of the facilities;
   
   
   
   (j)	A statement that the cable television operator shall, upon request,
   indemnify the owner for any damage caused in connection with the installation;
   
   
   
   (k)	A statement that, in compensation for the access authorized under D.C.
   Code §43-1844.1 (1981 Ed.), the amount of one dollar ($1) shall be tendered
   when an access agreement is signed or, if necessary, Office approval to
   proceed with the installation of cable facilities is obtained;
   
   
   
   (l)	A statement that the owner may waive compensation for permitting the
   installation of cable television facilities;
   
   
   
   (m)	A statement that the owner may, within sixty (60) days of service of this
   notice that installation has been completed, apply for compensation in excess
   of one dollar ($1); and
   
   
   
   (n)	A statement that a response from the owner or authorized agent of the
   property shall be served on the cable television operator within fifteen (15)
   days and that failure to respond may result in the installation of cable
   television facilities pursuant to the approval of the Office.

   3003.3. The cable television operator shall determine the identity of the
   owner or authorized agent of the property in question.

   3003.4. At any time after delivery of the notice specified in §3003.2, an
   owner or authorized agent of the property may waive compensation for
   permitting the installation of cable television facilities.

   3003.5. Every cable television operator that installs cable television
   services or facilities pursuant to this chapter shall serve upon the owner or
   authorized agent of the property notice that installation has been completed
   within five (5) days of the initiation of cable service to a tenant.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 7175, 7177 (September 30, 1988).
