                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION BY OWNER FOR COMPENSATION (ยง 15-3006)

3006.1. If an owner believes he or she is entitled to compensation in excess
   of one dollar ($1), the owner may file an application with the Office
   requesting a determination of the compensation.

   3006.2. Applications for compensation shall be filed within sixty (60) days of
   receiving notice, under ยง3003, from the cable television operator of intent
   to install cable television facilities or notice of the completion of the
   installation of cable television facilities. There shall be no extension of
   the time period prescribed in this section.

   3006.3. Filing an application for compensation shall not delay or impair the
   right of the cable television operator to construct, install, maintain, or
   repair cable television facilities.

   3006.4. An application for compensation shall set forth specific facts relied
   on by the owner to justify compensation in excess of one dollar ($1). The
   application shall include, but need not be limited to, the following
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the location and the amount of space to be occupied by
   the cable installation;
   
   
   
   (b)	The value of the property before the installation of cable facilities and
   equipment, and the value of the property after the installation of cable
   facilities;
   
   
   
   (c)	The criteria, data, or methods used to determine the values described in
   paragraph (b); and
   
   
   
   (d)	The amount claimed by the owner as compensation for the taking of property
   occasioned by the installation of cable television facilities.

   3006.5. The application for compensation shall be served on the cable
   television operator by hand-delivery or certified mail. Proof of service shall
   be filed with the Office.

   3006.6. The cable television operator shall file with the Office a response to
   the application within twenty-one (21) days after the date the application is
   served.

   3006.7. The Office may, upon good cause shown, permit the filing of
   supplemental information at any time and may, on its own initiative, direct
   the filing of additional information before making a determination on the
   issue of compensation.

   3006.8. After receiving the information required under this section, the
   Office shall determine whether the information supplied establishes a prima
   facie case that compensation may exceed one dollar ($1). The determination of
   the Office will be mailed to both the cable television operator and owner or
   authorized agent of the property.

   3006.9. Within twenty (20) days of the date of the determination of the
   Office, the owner or the cable operator may file a request for a hearing. The
   hearing shall be held in accordance with the procedures established in D.C.
   Code ยง1-1509 (1981 Ed.).

   3006.10. The Office may, following a request for a hearing require the cable
   television operator to make advance payment or post security in the form and
   amount as the Office deems necessary to ensure the adequacy of compensation.

   3006.11. If, at any time after the filing of an application for compensation,
   the cable operator and the owner agree on the amount of compensation to be
   paid for installing cable television facilities, the Office shall not be
   required to make an assessment or conduct a hearing. The agreement along with
   the criteria, data, or methods used to determine the amount of compensation,
   shall be submitted to the Office for approval.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 7175, 7182 (September 30, 1988).
