                                  DC REGULATIONS

SCHOOL FACILITIES UNDER AGREEMENT WITH THE BOARD OF EDUCATION (§ 19-710)

710.1. In accordance with D.C. Code § 31-201 (1998 Repl.), public school
   buildings and grounds located in the District may be used for supplementary
   educational purposes, civic meetings for the free discussion of public
   questions, social centers, centers of recreation, and playgrounds.

   710.2. School facilities shall not be used for sectarian purposes.

   710.3. Public school grounds and related facilities may be used by private and
   parochial schools for athletic contests.

   710.4. The use for school purposes of school buildings and grounds under the
   jurisdiction of the Board of Education shall have precedence over their use
   for social, recreational, community, or civic purposes.

   710.5. The responsibility for the use of school facilities for school
   functions, conferences of persons employed by the Board of Education,
   parents’ meetings, commencement exercises, exhibitions of school work
   connected with day or evening school programs, civil service examinations, and
   other education or nonrecreational purposes shall remain with the Board of
   Education.

   710.6. In addition to other purposes authorized by law, the Department may be
   authorized by the Board of Education to use school buildings and grounds for
   establishing the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Social centers;
   
   
   
   (b)	Centers of recreation; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Community playgrounds.

   710.7. Authorizations by the Board of Education for the use of school
   facilities by the Department shall be subject to review and rescindment for
   cause by the Board of Education.

   710.8. The Director of the Department of Parks and Recreation shall, from time
   to time, request the Board of Education to authorize the Department to use
   certain specified school buildings and grounds.

   710.9. The school buildings and grounds requested shall, insofar as
   practicable, conform with the Recreation System Plan developed by the National
   Capital Planning Commission.

   710.10. The Department shall not grant the use of public school buildings and
   grounds except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
   specific approval is given by order of the Board of Education.

   710.11. The Department may establish and operate social centers, centers of
   recreation, and community playgrounds, in accordance with the provisions of
   this chapter, in public school buildings and on public school grounds that are
   approved by the Board of Education.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 15 DCRR §§ 3.1, 3.2(a) and (b) (August 10, 1970 and December 23,
   1970).
