                                  DC REGULATIONS

DOG PARKS[COLON] SITE GUIDELINES AND SPECIFICATIONS (ยง 19-733)

733.1. A dog park shall be no less than five thousand square feet (5,000 sq.
   ft.) in area where feasible, unless parkland availability in certain
   neighborhoods precludes meeting this guideline. Triangle parks or other areas
   of less than five thousand square feet (5,000 sq. ft.) may be considered.

   733.2. Best management practices shall be implemented wherever feasible to
   preserve the surrounding environment. A dog park shall be established
   according to the following environmental guidelines:
   
   
   
   (a)	A dog park shall be located on well-drained land to prevent soil erosion
   with a maximum slope of 20%;
   
   
   
   (b)	A dog park shall sit at least 50 feet from surface waters that drain into
   the Potomac and Anacostia Rivers and Rock Creek;
   
   
   
   (c)	A dog park shall be located near a water supply line for drinking-fountain
   and maintenance purposes; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A dog park shall have a surface type that allows for positive drainage
   away from the site and that helps mitigate waste management issues.

   733.3. A dog park shall comply with all codes and regulations as they apply to
   the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Clean Water Act (Federal
   Water Pollution Control Act of 1972), the D.C. Water Pollution Control Act of
   1984, and DPR Standards.

   733.4. A dog park shall be established on under-utilized land where possible.
   If such land is not available in a neighborhood where there is a demonstrated
   need for a dog park, the Director may consider other options about park space,
   including but not limited to time-sharing arrangements with other park users.

   733.5. The Director shall not approve sites deemed unsuitable for dog parks,
   which shall be determined on a case-by case basis and may include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Areas designated specifically as playgrounds or children&#8217;s play
   areas;
   
   
   
   (b)	Athletic fields and courts;
   
   
   
   (c)	Sensitive habitat areas or wildlife areas determined by the District
   Department of the Environment (DDOE); and
   
   
   
   (d)	Areas directly upslope from a community garden.

   733.6. Each dog park shall have permanent signs, posted in English and
   Spanish, stating the hours of operation, rules, and regulations for the dog
   park, and contact information for the Department.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 11714 (December 7, 2007).
