                                  DC REGULATIONS

OCCUPANCY OF ACCESSIBLE UNIT (ยง 14-7405)

7405.1. DCHA has units designated for persons with mobility, sight and hearing
   impairments referred to as accessible units.

   7405.2. DCHA will offer these accessible units to families in the following
   order:
   
   
   
   (a)	First: Current occupant of another public housing unit who has a
   disability that requires the special features of that unit;
   
   
   
   (b)	Second: An eligible qualified applicant on the public housing waiting list
   having a disability that requires the special features of the unit; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Third: If there are no eligible qualified applicants on the public housing
   waiting list, a non-disabled applicant will be offered the unit. DCHA will
   require that the non- disabled applicant agree to sign a lease that requires
   the applicant to move to an available non-accessible unit when either a
   current resident or applicant needs the special features of the unit.

   7405.3. A Reasonable Accommodation Waiting List will be created and maintained
   by date and time of request pursuant to the order of families created by ยง
   7405.2.

   7405.4. The first qualified current resident in sequence on the list of
   residents seeking reasonable accommodations will be offered a unit of the
   appropriate size with the special features required. If more than one unit of
   the appropriate size and type is available, the first unit offered will be the
   first unit that is ready for occupancy.

   7405.5. Upon inspection of the offered unit, the resident or applicant will be
   required to sign a Letter of Acceptance/Rejection of an Accessible Unit. DCHA
   will maintain a record of units offered, including location, date and
   circumstances of each offer, each acceptance or rejection and the reason for
   the rejection.

   7405.6. A current resident will receive two (2) offers of accessible units
   before his/her name is moved to the end of the Reasonable Accommodation
   Waiting List.

   7405.7. An applicant will receive two (2) offers of accessible units before
   his/her name is removed from the Public Housing Waiting List.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2468, 2474-75 (March
   15, 2002).
