                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUEST FOR REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION BY PUBLIC HOUSING RESIDENTS AND APPLICANTS
(§ 14-7404)

7404.1. Requested accommodations will not be approved if one of the following
   would occur as a result:
   
   
   
   (a)	A violation of District of Columbia and/or federal law;
   
   
   
   (b)	A fundamental alteration in the nature of the DCHA public housing program;
   
   
   
   (c)	An undue financial and administrative burden on DCHA;
   
   
   
   (d)	A structurally unfeasible alteration; or
   
   
   
   (e)	An alteration requiring the removal or alteration of a load-bearing
   structural member.

   7404.2. All requests for reasonable accommodation shall be reduced to writing
   on the reasonable accommodation form by the resident or potential resident,
   DCHA staff, or any person identified by the individual. This form includes
   various forms of reasonable accommodations as well as the general principles
   of reasonable accommodation.

   7404.3. The Property Manager shall request documentation of the need for a
   Reasonable Accommodation as identified on the Request for Reasonable
   Accommodation form as well as suggested reasonable accommodations to assist
   the resident in the opportunity to fully enjoy the dwelling unit or
   non-housing program.

   7404.4. The following may provide verification of a resident’s disability
   and the need for the requested accommodation:
   
   
   
   (a)	Physician;
   
   
   
   (b)	Licensed health professional;
   
   
   
   (c)	Professional representing a social service agency; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Disability agency or clinic.

   7404.5. The property manager shall forward his or her recommendation and all
   materials and verifications to the Director of Housing Management in the
   Regional Office within ten (10) days of receipt.

   7404.6. The Director of Housing Management for the Region may approve a
   request for a reasonable accommodation, but may not deny a request.
   
   
   
   The decision to approve or deny the reasonable accommodation request shall be
   made as expeditiously as possible but must be within sixty (60) working days
   of the receipt of the request.

   7404.7. All recommendations for denial from the Director of Housing Management
   for the Region must be forwarded to the ADA/504 Coordinator for further review
   and final determination.

   7404.8. Once the decision has been made to approve a request for a reasonable
   accommodation, a copy of all documents shall be forwarded to the ADA/504
   Coordinator.

   7404.9. The resident will be notified in writing of the final reasonable
   accommodation determination by the ADA/504 Coordinator, Regional Office or
   property manager. If the accommodation is approved, the resident will be
   notified of the projected date for implementation. If the accommodation is
   denied, the resident will be notified of the reasons for denial.

   7404.10. All recommendations that have been approved by the ADA/504
   Coordinator will be forwarded to the appropriate Regional Director of Housing
   Management for implementation. All requests for reasonable accommodation that
   are approved by the Director of Housing Management will promptly be
   implemented or begin the process of implementation.

   7404.11. If a request for a reasonable accommodation is denied pursuant to the
   reasons provided in § 7404.1, DCHA will seek to provide the individual with a
   disability an alternative opportunity to fully participate in the program or
   activity provided by DCHA.

   7404.12. DCHA shall not require a resident with a disability to accept a
   transfer in lieu of providing a reasonable accommodation. However, if a public
   housing resident with a disability requests dwelling unit modifications that
   involve structural changes, including, but not limited to widening entrances,
   rooms, or hallways, and there is a vacant, comparable, appropriately sized
   UFAS compliant unit in that resident’s project or an adjacent project, DCHA
   may offer to transfer the resident to the vacant unit in his/her project or
   adjacent project in lieu of providing structural modifications. However, if
   that resident rejects the proffered transfer or voucher, DCHA shall make
   modifications to the resident’s unit unless doing so would be structurally
   impracticable or would result in an undue administrative and financial burden.

   7404.13. If the resident accepts the transfer, DCHA will work with the
   resident to obtain moving expenses from social service agencies or other
   similar sources. If that effort to obtain moving expenses is unsuccessful
   within 30 days of the assignment of the dwelling unit, DCHA shall pay the
   reasonable moving expenses. Nothing contained in this paragraph is intended to
   modify the terms of DCHA’s Tenant and Assignment Plan and any resident’s
   rights thereunder.

   7404.14. When issuing a voucher as an accommodation, DCHA must include a list
   of current available accessible units known to DCHA, upon request. DCHA will
   also provide search assistance. DCHA may also partner with a qualified, local
   disability organization to assist the resident or applicant with the search
   for available, accessible housing.

   7404.15. Reasonable Accommodations will be made for applicants during the
   application process. All applications must be taken in an accessible location.
   Applications will be made available in accessible formats. Sign language
   interpreters and readers will be made available upon request.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2468, 2472-74 (March
   15, 2002).
