                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICE OR ASSISTANCE ANIMALS (ยง 14-7409)

7409.1. Residents of DCHA with disabilities are permitted to have service
   animals, if such animals are necessary as a reasonable accommodation for their
   disabilities. DCHA residents, or potential residents, who need a service
   animal as a reasonable accommodation must request the accommodation in
   accordance with the reasonable accommodation policy set forth in this Chapter.

   7409.2. Residents who have a service animal residing with them at any
   DCHA-owned property prior to May 1, 2005, must file a request for a reasonable
   accommodation and otherwise comply with the requirements in this Chapter prior
   to July 1, 2005.

   7409.3. Residents at any DCHA-owned property who are approved to have a
   service animal as a reasonable accommodation may keep the animal provided they
   comply with the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Register the animal with the property manager;
   
   
   
   (b)	Update the registration for the animal annually;
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide proof the animal has been inoculated in accordance with applicable
   local law;
   
   
   
   (d)	Execute a lease addendum providing for the proper care and maintenance of
   the animal and the unit occupied by the animal in accordance with the DCHA
   rules; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Continuously provide the proper maintenance and care for the animal and
   assure that the animal does not otherwise impair the peaceful enjoyment of the
   property by other residents.

   7409.4. DCHA requires that a resident or prospective resident with a service
   animal provide written certification:
   
   
   
   (a)	From a third party, such as a health care provider, that the resident or a
   member of his or her family is a person with a disability and that an animal
   of the type proposed is reasonably necessary to meet the needs of the disabled
   person; and
   
   
   
   (b)	From a third party knowledgeable about the service animal, such as a
   trainer or veterinarian, that:
   
   
   
   (i)	The animal has the capability and individualized training, where
   necessary, such as for a seeing Eye dog, to work for the benefit of the person
   with a disability;
   
   
   
   (ii)	The animal is a domesticated animal and does not pose a risk of serious
   bites or lacerations, nor is the animal considered to be dangerous,
   aggressive, vicious, intimidating or detrimental to the health and safety of
   other residents or employees.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2468, 2476 (March 15,
   2002); as amended by notice of Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 4215-16
   (April 29, 2005).
