                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUESTS FOR REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS (ยง 14-7403)

7403.1. A person with a disability may request a reasonable accommodation at
   any time during the application process, residency in public housing, or
   participation in the Housing Choice Voucher and Moderate Rehabilitation
   Programs of DCHA. All requests must be reduced to writing by the individual,
   DCHA staff or any person identified by the individual.

   7403.2. Reasonable accommodation methods or actions that may be appropriate
   for a particular program and individual may be found to be inappropriate for
   another program or individual. The decision to approve or deny a request for a
   reasonable accommodation is made on a case by case basis and takes into
   consideration the disability and the needs of the individual as well as the
   nature of the program or activity in which the individual seeks to
   participate. The following provisions apply to Requests for Reasonable
   Accommodations:
   
   
   
   (a)	All applicants will be provided the Request for a Reasonable Accommodation
   Form with the application.
   
   
   
   (b)	All residents will be provided the Request Form again at the time of
   recertification, and upon request.
   
   
   
   (c)	DCHA will respond in writing to all requests for reasonable accommodation.
   
   
   
   (d)	All decisions to grant or to deny reasonable accommodations will be
   communicated in writing and in the form requested by the individual.

   7403.3. Examples of reasonable accommodations may include, but are not limited
   to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Making a unit, part of a unit or public and common use element accessible
   for the head of household or a household member with a disability that is on
   the lease;
   
   
   
   (b)	Permitting a family to have a service or assistance animal necessary to
   assist a family member with a disability;
   
   
   
   (c)	Allowing a live-in aid to reside in an appropriately sized DCHA unit;
   
   
   
   (d)	Transferring a resident to a larger size unit to provide a separate
   bedroom for a person with a disability;
   
   
   
   (e)	Transferring a resident to a unit on a lower level or a unit that is
   completely on one level;
   
   
   
   (f)	Making documents available in large type, computer disc or Braille;
   
   
   
   (g)	Making sign language interpreters available to meet with staff or at
   resident meetings;
   
   
   
   (h)	Installing strobe type flashing lights and other such equipment for a
   family member with a hearing impairment;
   
   
   
   (i)	Permitting an outside agency or family member to assist a resident or an
   applicant in meeting screening criteria or meeting essential lease
   obligations;
   
   
   
   (j)	Permitting requests for extensions of Housing Choice Vouchers if there is
   a difficulty in locating a unit with suitable accessible features or otherwise
   appropriate for the family; and
   
   
   
   (k)	As a reasonable accommodation for a family member with a disability,
   approving a request for exception payment standard amounts under the Housing
   Choice Voucher Program in accordance with ยง 7408.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2468, 2470-72 (March
   15, 2002).
