                                  DC REGULATIONS

PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT EVALUATION STANDARDS (DC) (ยง 11-1504)

1504.1. Planned unit development applications for sites within the DC Overlay
   District shall be evaluated and approved, disapproved, or modified according
   to the standards in this section. These standards are inclusive, but not
   exhaustive in nature; it is not expected that an application will exemplify
   all the standards or achieve all of them in a superior fashion.

   1504.2. To the extent an application proposes benefits beyond the requirements
   of this chapter, the relative value of the public benefits offered, the degree
   of flexibility or other development incentives requested, and the potential
   adverse impacts, if any, to be accepted or mitigated, shall all be judged,
   balanced, and reconciled according to the specific circumstances of each case.

   1504.3. The applicant shall have the burden of proof to justify the granting
   of the application according to these standards.

   1504.4. The Zoning Commission shall approve planned unit development
   applications only if found not inconsistent with the Comprehensive Plan and
   generally compatible with any other directly applicable city-wide and
   neighborhood plans.

   1504.5. The site plan and design of the project shall provide present and
   future occupants with a living or working environment and amenities superior
   to those that can be achieved by applying the other provisions of the Zoning
   Regulations. Flexibility in the siting, design, type, and location of
   buildings is encouraged. Superior planning and design include, but are not
   limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provision of open space, which should preserve original gardens and
   backyard open spaces and provide light, air, and privacy to adjacent
   buildings;
   
   
   
   (b)	Effective and safe vehicular and pedestrian circulation with:
   
   
   
   (1)	Full use of the alleys as a service area for vehicles;
   
   
   
   (2)	Streets unimpeded by service stops; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Sidewalks and public space inviting to pedestrians and free of vehicular
   parking;
   
   
   
   (c)	Superior architectural design in the subject building or complex
   considered in and of itself and in relationship to the surrounding buildings
   and environment within six hundred feet (600 ft.) within the DC Overlay
   District;
   
   
   
   (d)	Retention of the entire fabric and scale of historic buildings, to the
   extent the proposed planned unit development directly affects historic
   landmarks or contributing historic buildings in the local historic district;
   
   
   
   (e)	Retention of housing, the conversion of residential use of nonresidential
   uses in Special Purpose and Mixed Use Districts, and the provision of low and
   moderate income housing;
   
   
   
   (f)	Superior landscaping;
   
   
   
   (g)	Other project amenities that are demonstrated to contribute to the quality
   of life in the planned unit development or in the surrounding neighborhood;
   and
   
   
   
   (h)	Project amenities shall be located on the site of the planned unit
   development or in the surrounding neighborhood. In some instances, additional
   amenities may be located in the adjacent or nearby public space; provided,
   that the public agency responsible for the space concurs with the proposed
   amenity and has executed a development agreement with the applicant regarding
   construction and maintenance of the amenity. For the purpose of this overlay
   district, &#8220;surrounding neighborhood&#8221; shall be defined as the
   subject square or the adjoining square within the DC Overlay District.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 495, 497 (January 24, 1992); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9741-43 (December 8, 2000),
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR
   8335, 8454 (October 20, 2000).
