                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS (TSP) (ยง 11-1515)

1515.1. Any exception from the requirements of this chapter shall be permitted
   only as a special exception, if approved by the Board of Zoning Adjustment
   after public hearing, in accordance with ยง 3104, and subject to the following
   requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Tree removal, grading, and topographical change shall be limited to the
   maximum extent consistent with construction of a building permitted by the
   standards of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	The applicant shall demonstrate that there are specific physical
   characteristics of the lot that justify the exception;
   
   
   
   (c)	The excepted building and overall site plan of the lot shall be generally
   consistent with the purposes of the TSP Overlay District and not adversely
   affect neighboring property; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The Board may impose requirements as to design, appearance, tree
   protection practices during construction, buffering, and other requirements as
   it deems necessary to achieve the purpose of this chapter, and may vary side
   and rear yard requirements in order to achieve the purposes of this chapter.

   1515.2. Before taking final action on an application, the Board shall submit
   the application to the following agencies for review and written reports:
   
   
   
   (a)	D.C. Office of Planning:
   
   
   
   (b)	D.C. Department of Transportation, Tree Management Administration;
   
   
   
   (c)	D.C. Department of Parks and Recreation;
   
   
   
   (d)	D.C. Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, Soil Erosion and Storm
   Management Branch; and
   
   
   
   (e)	National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior.

   1515.3. An applicant for a special exception shall submit at least the
   following materials:
   
   
   
   (a)	A site plan for development, including computation and illustration of
   total lot occupancy and impervious surface ratio, and regulated trees proposed
   to be removed; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A plan and statement indicating how trees to be preserved on the lot will
   be protected during the construction period, including reference to proposed
   procedures to guard against long-term damage by such factors as soil
   compaction.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 1900, 1902 (March 20, 1992); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9741-43 (December 8, 2000),
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR
   8335, 8456-57 (October 20, 2000).
