                                  DC REGULATIONS

ALCOHOL CERTIFICATION PROVIDER PERMIT (ยง 23-211)

211.1. A person or entity wishing to become an alcohol certification provider
   shall obtain an alcohol certification provider permit which shall allow the
   holder to provide an alcohol training and education certification program in
   the District of Columbia. For purposes of this section, an &#8220;alcohol
   certification provider&#8221; shall mean any person or entity approved by the
   Board to conduct an alcohol and education training program as set forth in ยง
   211.2. An alcohol certification provider permit shall be valid for three
   years.

   211.2. An alcohol certification provider shall include the following subjects
   in its alcohol and education training program:
   
   
   
   (a)	Alcohol&#8217;s effect on the body and behavior, especially as to driving
   ability;
   
   
   
   (b)	Recognizing the problem drinker;
   
   
   
   (c)	Intervention techniques, involving methods of dealing with the problem
   customer who has had or is approaching the point of having had too much to
   drink;
   
   
   
   (d)	Methods of recognizing and dealing with underage customers;
   
   
   
   (e)	Prevention techniques involving effective identification and carding
   procedures, and methods to reasonably regulate the service of alcoholic
   beverages to patrons;
   
   
   
   (f)	Explanation of the Title 25, D.C. Code Enactment and Related Amendments
   Act of 2001 and this title;
   
   
   
   (g)	Advertising, promotion, and marketing of alcoholic beverages; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Explanation that alcoholism is a chronic, progressive disease and that
   treatment is available through clinical providers and mutual support groups.

   211.3. Independent contractors, private individuals, or educational
   institutions which seek approval to provide alcoholic beverage server training
   shall proceed as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit a letter of intent to the ABRA Director which must include a copy
   of all training materials, curriculum, and examinations, along with the annual
   fee set forth in ยง 209.9 for the entire three-year permit period.
   
   
   
   (b)	The ABRA Director will schedule a presentation of the applicant&#8217;s
   program for evaluation by the Enforcement Division of ABRA who will prepare a
   written evaluation report on the program&#8217;s compliance with the training
   standards.
   
   
   
   (c)	Should the ABRA Director find that the applicant meets the requirements of
   this section, the application will then be placed before the Board for
   consideration at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
   
   
   
   (d)	The Board shall make the final determination as to the qualifications of
   the applicant and compliance of the applicant&#8217;s program with ยง 211.2.
   
   
   
   (e)	Approval of an alcohol training and education program shall expire after
   three years from the date of the course obtaining approval. The applicant may
   resubmit a program to the Board for approval as part of its application to
   renew its certification provider permit.

   211.4. A person or entity currently approved by the Board to conduct an
   alcohol training and education program shall also be required to apply for an
   alcohol certification provider permit.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4309 (April 30, 2004); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12991 (December 26, 2008).
