                                  DC REGULATIONS

OFF-SITE COMPLIANCE (§ 11-2607)

2607.1. The Board of Zoning Adjustment is authorized to permit some or all of
   the set-aside requirements of § 2603 to be constructed off-site upon proof,
   based upon a specific economic analysis, that compliance on-site would impose
   an economic hardship. Among the factors that may be considered by the BZA in
   determining the existence of economic hardship are:
   
   
   
   (a)	Exceptionally high fees in condominium developments that cannot be reduced
   to levels affordable to eligible households;
   
   
   
   (b)	The inclusion of expensive and specialized social or health services in a
   retirement housing development or a development that principally provides
   housing for the disabled, if such services are not severable from the
   provision of housing and render units in the development unaffordable to
   eligible households; or
   
   
   
   (c)	For a rental development the owner of which wishes to change the
   property&#8217;s use to one listed in § 2602.3, proof that continuation of
   the rental use is no longer economically feasible.

   2607.2. An applicant who has demonstrated the existence of economic hardship
   shall further demonstrate that the off-site development:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is located within the same census tract as the inclusionary development;
   
   
   
   (b)	Consists of new construction for which no certificate of occupancy has
   been issued;
   
   
   
   (c)	Is at a location suitable for residential development;
   
   
   
   (d)	Has complied with or will comply with all on-site requirements of this
   Chapter as are applicable to it;
   
   
   
   (e)	Has not received any development subsidies from federal or District
   government programs established to provide affordable housing;
   
   
   
   (f)	Will provide inclusionary units comparable in type to the market-rate
   units being created in their place, with gross floor areas of not less than
   95% of the gross floor area of such market-rate units, and of a number no
   fewer than the number of units that would otherwise have been required
   on-site;
   
   
   
   (g)	Will not have more than 30% of its gross floor area occupied by
   inclusionary units that satisfy the set-aside requirement of other properties,
   including the property that is the subject of the BZA application; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Has not utilized bonus density beyond that provided by § 2604.1

   2607.3. The requirement of § 2607.2 (a) may be waived upon a showing that the
   off-site development is owned by the Applicant, is located in the District of
   Columbia, and meets the requirements of § 2607.2.

   2607.4. Inclusionary units constructed off-site shall not be counted toward
   any set-aside requirement separately applicable to the off-site development
   pursuant to § 2603.

   2607.5. No order granting off-site compliance shall become effective until a
   covenant, found legally sufficient by the Office of the Attorney General, has
   been recorded in the land records of the District of Columbia between the
   owner of the off-site development and the Mayor. A draft covenant, executed by
   the owner of the offsite property, shall be attached to an application for
   relief under this section.

   2607.6. The covenant shall bind the owner and all future owners of the
   off-site development to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Construct and reserve the number of inclusionary units allowed to be
   accounted for off-site, in accordance with the plans approved by the Board and
   the conditions of the Board&#8217;s order;
   
   
   
   (b)	Sell or rent, as applicable, such units in accordance with the provisions
   of this Chapter and the Act for so long as the off-site development remains in
   existence;
   
   
   
   (c)	Neither apply for nor accept any development subsidies from federal or
   District government programs established to provide affordable housing;
   
   
   
   (d)	Acknowledge that the owners are legally responsible for the set-aside
   requirement accepted as if the requirement had been imposed directly on the
   off-site development; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Not request special exception or variance relief with respect to the
   obligations accepted or its own obligations under this Chapter.

   2607.7. Upon the recordation of the covenant, the set-aside requirements
   permitted to be accounted off-site shall be deemed to be the legal obligation
   of the current and future owners of the off-site development. All dwelling
   units as are required to be reserved in the off-site development in accordance
   with the BZA order shall be deemed inclusionary units for the purposes of this
   Chapter and the Act.

   2607.8. No application for a certificate of occupancy for a market-rate unit
   on the inclusionary development shall be granted unless construction of the
   off-site inclusionary units is progressing at a rate roughly proportional to
   the construction of the on-site market-rate units.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 7013 (August 25, 2006); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 2604 (March 14, 2008).
