                                  DC REGULATIONS

RENEWAL OF LICENSES (§ 17-312)

312.1. A renewal license may be issued before the date of expiration of the
   current license without reexamination if all of the following conditions are
   met:
   
   
   
   (a)	All permit fees have been paid;
   
   
   
   (b)	Work or services performed under the existing license have been done in a
   manner satisfactory to the Director;
   
   
   
   (c)	The application and any required bond is approved; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The license renewal fee is paid.

   312.2. The renewal license shall bear the date and be effective as of the
   expiration date of the old license.

   312.3. The application for renewal of a license, accompanied by any required
   bond, shall be filed with the Director in writing on the form provided, and
   the license renewal fee shall be paid before expiration of an existing
   license, except as otherwise provided in this section.

   312.4. Any person licensed under this chapter who fails to renew his or her
   license prior to the expiration date of his or her license will be permitted
   to renew the license without being required to take an examination in
   connection with the renewal, subject to the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the license was not revoked during the period for which it was
   issued, and that it was in full force and effect on the date of expiration;
   
   
   
   (b)	That the application for renewal is made in writing within thirty (30)
   days from the date the license expired;
   
   
   
   (c)	That the applicant for renewal has not engaged in the activity for which
   the license is required during the period he or she remained unlicensed after
   the expiration of the previous license, and submits to the Examining Board a
   notarized statement that he or she has not so engaged in such activity; and
   
   
   
   (d)	That the applicant for renewal of an expired license personally appears
   before the Examining Board to answer any questions relative to the application
   for renewal that the Examining Board may require.

   312.5. This section shall not be construed as authorizing or permitting the
   holder of a license issued under the authority of this chapter whose license
   has expired and whose license has not been renewed in accordance with this
   section to continue to operate as if he or she were the holder of a valid
   license.

   312.6. This section shall not be construed as waiving any provision in this
   chapter prohibiting any person from engaging in an activity for which a
   license is required without first having been issued a valid license to engage
   in that activity.

   312.7. If a license expires while the licensee is in the service of the Armed
   Forces of the United States or the Merchant Marine, the license may be renewed
   without further examination on payment of renewal fee, and upon presentation
   of the application for renewal to the Director within six (6) months after
   discharge.

   312.8. Proof that the licensee was serving in the Armed Forces of the United
   States or the Merchant Marine on the date of expiration of the license shall
   accompany the application for renewal.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order No. 55-2029, §§8(a)-(e), 5U DCRR,
   §1.8(a)-(e).
