                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS (§ 17-301)

301.1. The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to persons, firms,
   and corporations engaged or employed in the business of installing,
   maintaining, repairing, or replacing air conditioning and refrigeration
   equipment, except as provided in §302, and subject to the limitations set
   forth in this section.

   301.2. A person, firm, or corporation licensed under this chapter to engage or
   to be employed in the business of installing, maintaining, repairing, and
   replacing refrigeration or air conditioning equipment shall, in connection
   with the original installation of equipment, be limited to connecting that
   equipment to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The disconnecting means required for each motor which is located within
   sight of the motor and not more than ten feet (10&#8242;) from the motor;
   
   
   
   (b)	A public water supply shut-off valve, located within ten feet (10&#8242;)
   of the equipment;
   
   
   
   (c)	An approved drain; and
   
   
   
   (d)	All interconnecting control wiring on the load side of each disconnecting
   means which meets the requirements of §301.2(a).

   301.3. The ten-foot (10&#8242;) distance between the equipment and shut-off
   valve or disconnecting means shall be measured without regard for any
   intervening object other than a wall or partition.

   301.4. Each disconnecting means shall be installed under the authority of an
   approved electrical permit, and each shut-off valve and approved drain shall
   be installed by (or under the supervision of) a licensed master plumber under
   the authority of an approved permit.

   301.5. Connection of the public water supply to refrigeration or air
   conditioning equipment shall be through an approved check valve or vacuum
   breaker which shall be (or shall have been) installed by a licensed master
   plumber under the authority of an approved permit.

   301.6. A person, firm, or corporation licensed under this chapter to engage in
   the business of installing, maintaining, repairing, and replacing
   refrigeration or air conditioning equipment shall, in connection with the
   maintenance, repair, or replacement of any such equipment, be limited to
   maintaining, repairing, or replacing the various components of refrigeration
   or air conditioning systems, including but not limited to, compressors,
   motors, controls, water regulating valves, and condensers.

   301.7. The limit of electrical repairs shall be from the disconnect means
   furnished for each motor location, including the replacement of branch circuit
   wiring on the load side of the disconnect means.

   301.8. The limit of plumbing repairs shall be between the approved water
   shut-off valve supplying the system and the approved sanitary drain with which
   the system is connected, including the replacement of piping.

   301.9. If any existing component of any refrigeration or air conditioning
   system is replaced by a component of larger size or capacity which consumes a
   larger amount of electricity, requires the enlargement of the branch circuit
   wiring, requires an increase in the capacity of the disconnect means, or
   requires any other enlargement or increase in the capacity of any component of
   the system, all replacement work shall be subject to the limitations
   established under §301.2 through §301.5.

   301.10. If new equipment is added to an existing system, the work required in
   connection with the installation of new equipment shall be subject to the
   limitations set forth in §301.2 through §301.5.

   301.11. If an existing piece of equipment is replaced with new equipment, the
   work required in connection with the installation of the replacement equipment
   shall be subject to the limitations set forth in §301.6 through §301.8.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order No, 55-2029, §§2(a)-(d), 5U DCRR,
   §§1.2(a)-(d).
