                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL LICENSING REQUIREMENTS (§ 17-303)

303.1. Except as specifically provided otherwise in this section, no person
   shall engage in or be employed in the business of installing, maintaining,
   repairing, or replacing refrigeration and air conditioning equipment, within
   the limits set forth in §301, without being licensed to do so.

   303.2. The licensing requirement in §303.1 shall not be applicable to persons
   performing refrigeration or air conditioning work under the personal
   supervision of, and under the authority of a permit issued to, a validly
   licensed Master Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic or Master
   Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic Limited, who is responsible for
   the proper performance of the work.

   303.3. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit performance of
   electrical work required in connection with the installation, repair,
   maintenance, or replacement of equipment by or under the supervision of a
   person holding a valid license authorizing him or her to perform that
   electrical work.

   303.4. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit performance of
   plumbing work required in connection with the installation, repair,
   maintenance, or replacement of equipment by or under the supervision of a
   person holding a valid license as a master plumber.

   303.5. Work to be performed by any person licensed under the authority of this
   chapter shall be limited to the work permitted to be performed under the
   specific license issued to that person.

   303.6. Each person, firm, or corporation proposing to engage in or be employed
   in the business of installing, maintaining, repairing, or replacing
   refrigeration and air conditioning equipment shall first secure one of the
   following licenses:
   
   
   
   (a)	Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Contractor;
   
   
   
   (b)	Master Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Master Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic Limited.

   303.7. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the mechanical work of
   installation, maintenance, repair, or replacement of refrigeration and air
   conditioning equipment (except persons not covered by this chapter under
   §302) unless he or she has first obtained a Journeyman Refrigeration and Air
   Conditioning Mechanic&#8217;s license.

   303.8. A journeyman&#8217;s license shall be issued at a time determined by
   the Director on the basis of a qualifying examination and test of skill in the
   practical details of this trade given under the direction of the Refrigeration
   and Air Conditioning Licensing Board.

   303.9. Each class of license listed in §303.6 shall entitle the holder of a
   license coming within that class to perform work related to the installation,
   maintenance, repair, or replacement of refrigeration or air conditioning
   equipment for a period of one (1) year, as set forth in §304.

   303.10. A licensee shall register any change of address of the
   licensee&#8217;s place of business or residence with the Director within five
   (5) days from the date on which the change occurs.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order No. 55-2029, §§3(a)(d) and 4(e), 5U
   DCRR, §§1.3(a)-(d) and 1.4(e).
