                                  DC REGULATIONS

REFRIGERATION AND AIR CONDITIONING CONTRACTORS (ยง 17-305)

305.1. A license as a Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Contractor may be
   issued to a person, firm, or corporation proposing to engage in that business
   if the following requirements are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The business shall be conducted at a specified location; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The business shall be conducted by or shall regularly employ at least one
   (1) person holding a valid Master Refrigeration and Air Conditioning
   Mechanic&#8217;s license or a valid Master Refrigeration and Air Conditioning
   Mechanic Limited&#8217;s license.

   305.2. If the highest grade of license held by the person conducting or
   regularly employed in the business of the Refrigeration and Air Conditioning
   Contractor is that of Master Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic
   Limited, the license issued to that contractor shall be limited to the
   installation, maintenance, repair, or replacement of refrigeration or air
   conditioning systems up to and including twenty-five (25) compressor
   horsepower or the equivalent tons of refrigeration in the aggregate.

   305.3. The license issued to a Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Contractor
   shall be valid only so long as the business of the licensee is conducted by or
   regularly employs at least one (1) person holding a valid license as a Master
   Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic or Master Refrigeration and Air
   Conditioning Mechanic Limited.

   305.4. At least one (1) master mechanic conducting or regularly employed in
   the business of the Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Contractor shall be
   named the &#8220;designated master mechanic&#8221; for that contractor. The
   designated master mechanic shall supervise and be responsible for the work to
   be performed under the authority of the permits issued to the contractor in
   the name of the designated master.

   305.5. For the purposes of this section, the term &#8220;regularly
   employs&#8221; or &#8220;regularly employed&#8221; means that the Master
   Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic or Master Refrigeration and Air
   Conditioning Mechanic Limited shall be available to supervise the installation
   of refrigeration or air conditioning equipment at all times during the
   installation, whenever such work is being performed by any mechanic under his
   or her supervision and for whose work he or she is responsible.

   305.6. The non-availability of the Master Refrigeration and Air Conditioning
   Mechanic or Master Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic Limited
   designated under ยง305.4 to supervise the performance of any refrigeration or
   air conditioning work performed under the authority of a permit issued to that
   master shall be cause for the suspension or revocation of the license of that
   designated master mechanic.

   305.7. If the master or limited master mechanic severs his or her connection
   with the contractor, both the master or limited master and the contractor
   shall notify the Director promptly.

   305.8. If a contractor is a non-resident of the District of Columbia, or has
   designated on the license application a local officer of the firm or
   corporation who is a non-resident of the District, the contractor shall also
   designate by name and address an individual who is a resident of the District,
   and who, by a signed statement, agrees to be the local agent of the contractor
   to accept notices, summons, or other legal notices for that contractor and to
   notify the Director of any change in the agent&#8217;s address or any change
   in the conditions of the agreement to act as agent for the contractor.

   305.9. The issuance and continuing validity of a contractor&#8217;s license
   shall be conditioned on the contractor&#8217;s furnishing and keeping in force
   a bond in the form required by this chapter.

   305.10. A contractor with more than one (1) business location shall obtain a
   separate license and file a separate bond for each business location.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order No. 55-2029, ยง4(a), 5U DCRR, ยง1.4(a).
