                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 17-399)

399.1. When used in this chapter, the words and phrases set forth in this
   section shall have the meanings ascribed.
   
   
   
   Air Conditioning &#8211; the simultaneous control of all, or at least the
   first three (3), of those factors affecting both the physical and chemical
   conditions of the atmosphere within any structure. These factors include
   temperature, humidity, motion, distribution, dust, bacteria, odors, and toxic
   gases.
   
   
   
   Approved drain &#8211; a receptacle intended to receive and discharge water,
   liquid, or water-carried wastes into a drainage system with which it is
   connected, the material, workmanship and type of construction of which is
   approved by the Director of the D.C. Department of Environmental Services.
   
   
   
   Board &#8211; the Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Licensing Board
   established by Organization Order No. 115, approved October 18, 1955.
   
   
   
   Contractor &#8211; a person, firm, or corporation holding himself, herself, or
   itself out to the public as being able to engage in the business of
   installing, maintaining, repairing, and replacing refrigeration and air
   conditioning equipment. A contractor may be an individual holding a license as
   a Master Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic or a license as a Master
   Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic Limited; or a contractor may be a
   partnership or corporation, one of whose officers holds one of the master
   licenses, or which employs an individual holding one of the master licenses.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the D.C. Department of Consumer and
   Regulatory Affairs, or the Director&#8217;s agent, representative, or
   designee.
   
   
   
   Disconnecting means &#8211; a device, group of devices, or other means by
   which the conductors of an electrical circuit can be disconnected from the
   source of supply.
   
   
   
   Installation or installing &#8211; the placement of equipment in position and
   the making ready of that equipment for operation.
   
   
   
   License &#8211; a certificate issued by the government of the District of
   Columbia enabling its holder to engage in the business of Refrigeration and
   Air Conditioning Contractor, or to engage in the occupation of Master
   Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic, or Master Refrigeration and Air
   Conditioning Mechanic Limited.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; a natural person, or a firm, partnership, association, or
   corporation.
   
   
   
   Refrigeration &#8211; the process of extracting heat by mechanical means
   through one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The compression and evaporation of a gas;
   
   
   
   (b)	The evaporation of a liquid; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The absorption or adsorption of a liquid or vapor.
   
   
   
   Self-contained unit system &#8211; a complete factory-made and factory-tested
   refrigeration or air conditioning system which is fabricated and assembled in
   a suitable frame or enclosure, including all components necessary for the
   proper operation of the system, and in which no refrigerant &#8211; containing
   parts are connected in the field.
   
   
   
   Shut-off valve &#8211; a cut-off to stop the flow of water from the public
   water supply.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order No. 55-2029, ยง1, 5U DCRR, ยง1.1.
