                                  DC REGULATIONS

PERSONS NOT SUBJECT TO THESE REGULATIONS (§ 17-302)

302.1. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons actually
   engaged in the performance of work under contract with the Federal government,
   or work done by personnel employed by the Federal government during the course
   of their regular government employment.

   302.2. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a person who
   installs, maintains, or repairs refrigerating or air conditioning equipment,
   machinery, or devices in a laboratory for experimental and developmental
   purposes if the laboratory obtains an exemption certificate or letter from the
   Director clearly setting forth the fact that the work shall be exempt.

   302.3. An employee of the District of Columbia whose name appears on the
   regular roll of examined licensees may be licensed without the payment of a
   fee if that person carries on no work authorized by that license other than
   for the District of Columbia. A license issued under this subsection shall be
   marked &#8220;District of Columbia Government Work Only.&#8221;

   302.4. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any person licensed
   as a steam or operating engineer under the laws of the District of Columbia if
   he or she is performing refrigeration or air conditioning maintenance or
   repair work along with his or her other routine duties as a steam or operating
   engineer for the person regularly employing him or her as a steam or operating
   engineer.

   302.5. No license under this chapter shall be required of a person, firm, or
   corporation for the installation, maintenance, repair, or replacement of a
   self-contained unit system containing not more than two pounds (2 lbs.) of
   refrigerant; Provided, that if an electrical or plumbing permit is required by
   the D.C. Electrical Code or D.C. Plumbing Code for work involved in connection
   with the installation, maintenance, repair, or replacement of a self-contained
   unit system, the electrical or plumbing work may be performed only under the
   authority of the required electrical or plumbing permit.

   302.6. No license of any kind authorized by this chapter shall be required of
   any person, firm, or corporation by reason of that person, firm, or
   corporation being engaged in the installation, maintenance, repair, or
   replacement of refrigeration or air conditioning equipment in motor vehicles
   or railroad rolling stock.

   302.7. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any public utility,
   as defined in D.C. Code §43-203 (1981), which is under the jurisdiction of
   the Public Service Commission of the District of Columbia, when that utility
   is engaged or employed in the business of installing, maintaining, repairing,
   and replacing refrigeration and air conditioning equipment as part of the
   performance of work for which the utility holds a franchise to engage in
   rendering a public utility service.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order No. 55.2029, §§11(a)-(f), 5U DCRR,
   §§1.11(a)-(f).
