                                  DC REGULATIONS

BONDING OF LICENSEES (§ 17-311)

311.1. Persons engaged in any business required under this chapter to be
   bonded shall furnish and keep in force a bond running to the District of
   Columbia with corporate surety authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury to
   do business pursuant to §3 of the Act of August 13, 1894 (28 Stat. 279), as
   amended (6 U.S.C. §8), and by the D.C. Department of Insurance to do business
   in the District, in the amount specified in this chapter.

   311.2. The bond shall be conditioned upon the performance of all licensed work
   undertaken by the person, firm, or corporation, in accordance with laws and
   regulations in force in the District, and shall hold the District of Columbia
   harmless from the consequences of any and all acts performed by that person,
   firm, or corporation in connection with the business during the period covered
   by the the bond.

   311.3. If a surety becomes insolvent or bankrupt, or ceases to be authorized
   by the Secretary of the Treasury to do business pursuant to §3 of the Act of
   August 13, 1894 (28 Stat. 279), as amended (6 U.S.C. §8), or by the D.C.
   Department of Insurance to do business in the District, the principal shall,
   within ten (10) days after notice of this event given by the Director, file a
   new bond in like amount and conditioned as the original. If the principal
   fails to do so, the license of the principal shall terminate.

   311.4. The Director shall furnish to anyone applying for it a certified copy
   of any bond filed under this section upon payment of a fee of five dollars
   ($5). The certified copy shall be prima facie evidence in any court that the
   bond was duly executed and delivered by the person, firm, or corporation whose
   name appears on the bond.

   311.5. The required bond shall be in the penalty of five thousand dollars
   ($5,000), and shall be executed in accordance with the following form:
   
   
   
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS
   
   That we, _______ as principal and ______ as sureties, are held and firmly
   bound unto the District of Columbia and to any person who may be aggrieved by
   a violation by the principal of any law or regulation in force in the District
   of Columbia relating to the refrigeration and air conditioning business in the
   full and just sum of _____ dollars ($___ ) lawful money of the United States
   of America, for which payment, well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves,
   jointly and severally, our joint and several heirs, executors, administrators,
   successors, and assigns firmly by these presents.
   
   
   
   Signed with our hands and sealed with our seals this ______ day of _____, 19
   ______.
   
   
   
   WHEREAS, the above bound ______ desires to engage in and practice the business
   of Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Contractor in the District, pursuant to
   the requirements of the Act of Congress approved December 20, 1944, 58 Stat.
   819, and the refrigeration and air conditioning licensing regulations of the
   District of Columbia (Title 17 DCMR chapter 3) and in accordance with the laws
   of the District of Columbia relating to the refrigeration and air conditioning
   business.
   
   
   
   NOW, THEREFORE, the conditions of the above obligations are such that if _____
   shall well and truly observe and strictly and faithfully comply with the
   refrigeration and air conditioning licensing regulations of the District,
   including any amendments which may be hereafter made, and with all rules,
   regulations, and orders of the Mayor of the District, and all laws of the
   District relating to refrigeration and air conditioning work placed in, upon,
   or leading to or from any building or structure in the District, and shall
   save and keep harmless the District of Columbia and any person who may be
   aggrieved by the violation of the laws or regulations in force in the District
   of Columbia applicable to the performance of work aforesaid by the principal
   hereto from the consequence of any and all acts done by _____ in the execution
   and practice of his or her business as refrigeration and air conditioning
   contractor, then this obligation to be void; otherwise to remain in full force
   and effect for five (5) years from the date hereof.

   311.6. The surety on any bond may terminate its liability under the bond by
   giving thirty (30) days written notice of termination, served either
   personally or by registered mail, to the principal and the Director.

   311.7. Upon giving notice under §311.3, the surety shall be discharged from
   all liability under the bond for any act or omission of the principal
   occurring after the expiration of thirty (30) days from the date of service of
   the notice.

   311.8. Unless on or before the expiration of the notice period the principal
   files a new bond in like amount and conditioned as the original in
   substitution of the bond so terminated, the license of the principal to engage
   in the licensed business shall likewise terminate upon the expiration of the
   notice period.

   311.9. Any person aggrieved by the violation of any law or regulation in force
   in the District of Columbia relating to the licensed business shall have, in
   addition to a right of action against the person, firm, or corporation, a
   right to bring suit against the surety on the bond, either alone or jointly
   with the principal, and to recover in an amount not exceeding the penalty of
   the bond any damages sustained by reason of any act, transaction, or conduct
   of the principal which is in violation of law or regulation in force in the
   District relating to that business: Provided, that nothing in this section
   shall be construed to impose upon the surety on any bond a greater liability
   than the total amount of the bond, or the amount remaining unextinguished by
   any prior recovery or recoveries, as the case may be.

   311.10. If a recovery is had on any bond, the principal shall restore the bond
   to its original amount.

   311.11. Upon making any payment on account of its bond, the surety shall
   immediately notify the Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order No. 55-2029, §§7(a)-(e), 5U DCRR,
   §1.7(a)-(e).
