                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEDUCTIONS FROM VALUATION OF GROSS ESTATE (ยง 9-205)

205.1. Amounts actually expended for funeral expenses may be allowed as
   deductions, but the deduction shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($ 1,000)
   unless any expenditure in excess of one thousand dollars ($ 1,000) is directed
   in the will of the decedent.

   205.2. No deductions shall be allowed for a monument or memorial unless the
   expenditure for a monument or memorial is directed in the will of the
   decedent.

   205.3. The amounts deductible from the gross estate as administration expenses
   are those expenses that are actually and necessarily incurred in the
   administration of the estate; that is, in the collection of assets, payment of
   debts, and distribution among the persons entitled.

   205.4. Expenditures not essential to the proper settlement of the estate, but
   incurred for the individual benefit of the heirs, legatees, or devisees, may
   not be taken as deductions.

   205.5. Administration expenses include executor&#8217;s or
   administrator&#8217;s commissions and attorney&#8217;s fees. Commissions and
   attorney&#8217;s fees may be allowed if approved by the Probate Court or at
   the discretion of the Deputy Chief Financial Officer.

   205.6. The allowable deduction for District real estate taxes for the fiscal
   year in which the decedent died is the pro rata portion of the total yearly
   tax based on the number of days the decedent lived during that fiscal year
   compared to three hundred sixty-five (365), less any real estate tax paid
   prior to death.

   205.7. Taxes unpaid at time of decedent&#8217;s death upon income received
   during the decedent&#8217;s lifetime are deductible, including interest
   accrued on the income at time of death. Taxes upon income received after death
   are not deductible.

   205.8. No deduction shall be allowed for hospital expenses, doctors and nurses
   bills, and any other expenses incurred, if those expenses were paid by
   decedent prior to his or her death.

   205.9. Funeral, administration, and other expenses and debts of the decedent
   are not proper deductions from the value of jointly held real estate or
   personal property passing by right of survivorship or from any other property
   received by a beneficiary (such as a U.S. Civil Service Retirement Fund) which
   may not be attached for debts of the decedent. Exceptions to this rule are
   encumbrances on District real estate and taxes on District real estate
   computed to the date of decedent&#8217;s death, and liens on personal property
   having a taxable situs in the District.

   205.10. There shall be allowed as a deduction from the gross estate that
   proportionate part of the total federal estate tax determined by the use of
   the following fraction:
   
   
   
   (a)	The NUMERATOR shall be the total net value of all transfers of property or
   portions of property which are subject to District inheritance tax; Provided,
   that the net value of any transfer so included shall not exceed the net amount
   at which that transfer is valued for federal estate tax purposes; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The DENOMINATOR shall be the total net value of the estate subject to
   federal estate tax, including the value of insurance benefits subject to the
   federal estate tax.

   205.11. If the estate of a resident or non-resident decedent is comprised in
   part of property which has no taxable situs in the District for inheritance
   tax purposes, there shall be allowed as a deduction only that portion of the
   debts of the decedent for which the property having a taxable situs in the
   District is properly chargeable either through direct allocation or
   apportionment.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order 299-637/12, effective June 14, 1944, 16
   DCRR ยง 405.
