                                  DC REGULATIONS

JOINTLY HELD SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES (ยง 9-210)

210.1. After the death of one of the joint holders of a safe deposit box in
   any bank, trust company, or under the custody or control of any person, the
   safe deposit box shall not be opened by any person other than the executor,
   administrator, or collector of the estate of the decedent appointed by the
   U.S. District Court (D.C.) without giving the Deputy Chief Financial Officer
   at least ten (10) days prior notice of the date, time, and place of the
   contemplated or intended opening.

   210.2. The safe deposit box shall not be opened prior to the time specified in
   the notice (except by the executor, administrator, or collector), unless the
   safe deposit box is opened before the time in the notice in the presence of
   the Deputy Chief Financial Officer (or the Deputy Chief Financial
   Officer&#8217;s representative) under an arrangement with the Deputy Chief
   Financial Officer for that purpose.

   210.3. If the Deputy Chief Financial Officer is present at the time and place
   specified in the notice, and the safe deposit box, for any reason, cannot be
   opened, that safe deposit box shall not be opened without a new ten (10) day
   notice as provided in ยง 210.1.

   210.4. After examination of the entire contents of the safe deposit box by the
   Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer shall issue
   a written order authorizing the bank or other lessor of the box to deliver the
   entire contents of the box to the survivor without any liability on the part
   of the lessor for the payment of the tax imposed on account of the transfer of
   the contents of the box.

   210.5. If the Deputy Chief Financial Officer is not present at the time and
   place specified in the notice, the safe deposit box may be opened, in which
   event, the lessor of the safe deposit box shall be liable for the payment of
   any taxes assessed on account of the transfer of the contents of the box, and
   the lessor shall accurately list and describe the contents of the safe deposit
   box on the statement to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer.

   210.6. All property in any such safe deposit box shall be presumed to be the
   property of the decedent where ownership is not established to the
   satisfaction of the Deputy Chief Financial Officer.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order 299-637/12, effective June 14, 1944, 16
   DCRR ยง 410.
