                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUIREMENTS FOR SIGHTSEEING TOUR COMPANIES (§ 19-1204)

1204.1. A sightseeing tour company licensee engaged in the operation of
   sightseeing tour vehicles in the District shall obtain the necessary approvals
   of the District Department of Transportation, the District Department of Motor
   Vehicles, and the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Commission.

   1204.2. The approval of sightseeing tour vehicles required by § 1204.1 shall
   be evidenced by the display on each vehicle of the applicable license(s) or
   certificate(s) issued by the relevant government agencies.

   1204.3. A vehicle operated by a licensed sightseeing tour company shall have
   at least one (1) licensed sightseeing tour guide on board the vehicle during
   its sightseeing tours in the District.  This requirement shall not apply to a
   vehicle that utilizes only audio recordings during the sightseeing tour;
   provided, that a driver of such a sightseeing tour vehicle who talks,
   lectures, or otherwise provides sightseeing information to passengers while
   the vehicle is in motion must be licensed as a sightseeing tour guide.

   1204.4. Each sightseeing tour company shall ensure that its sightseeing tour
   vehicles comply with all District parking and traffic regulations.

   1204.5. A sightseeing tour company licensee shall notify the Department within
   thirty (30) days after any change to the information provided on the
   application required by § 1202, including a change to the business address or
   telephone number of the licensee.

   1204.6. The Director may, in connection with the consideration of a
   sightseeing tour company license application and from time to time during the
   license term, during regular business hours, require an applicant or licensee
   to make available to the Director, or the Director’s agent, such information
   as the Director considers necessary to determine or verify whether the
   applicant or licensee has or retains the qualifications necessary for
   obtaining or retaining a license, or has violated or failed to comply with an
   applicable statute or regulation.

   1204.7. Failure to make information available to the Director, failure to
   furnish to the Director information the Director is authorized to request by
   this chapter, or failure to furnish to the Director or to permit the Director
   to make copies of such records maintained by the applicant or licensee as the
   Director may specify, shall be grounds for denial, suspension, or revocation
   of a license.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 2 § 8(c) &#038; (e) of the Police Regulations of District of
   Columbia (January 1983); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR
   6116, 6118 (July 16, 2010).
