                                  DC REGULATIONS

INELIGIBLE PROPERTIES (ยง 14-9305)

9305.1. The following properties or units are not eligible for the Partnership
   Program.
   
   
   
   (a)	Units that are occupied by the Owner of the property. This does not apply
   to cooperatives, which are deemed rental housing.
   
   
   
   (b)	Properties located in a flood zone area unless flood insurance is
   obtained.
   
   
   
   (c)	High-rise elevator properties with children residing therein, unless the
   HUD determines that there are no practical alternatives. A high-rise elevator
   building is any building over five (5) stories.
   
   
   
   (d)	Shared housing; nursing homes; and facilities providing continual
   psychiatric, medical nursing services, board and care or intermediate care.
   
   
   
   (e)	Units within the grounds of penal, reformatory, medical, mental, and
   similar public or private institutions.
   
   
   
   (f)	College or other school dormitories.
   
   
   
   (g)	Manufactured homes. Manufactured homes are defined as structures, which
   can be transported in one or more sections of eight (8) feet or more in width
   or forty (40) feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, are three
   hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which are built on a permanent
   chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling when connected to utilities, and
   includes plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems.
   
   
   
   (h)	Units subsidized with any District of Columbia rent subsidy.
   
   
   
   (i)	Units subsidized with tenant-based assistance under the HOME program or
   any other duplicative Federal or District of Columbia housing subsidy. This
   does not include the housing component of a welfare payment, a Social Security
   payment or a rent reduction because of a tax credit.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 5800 (June 21, 2002); as amended
   by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 974
   (January 23, 2004) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51
   DCR 5016 (May 14, 2004).
