                                  DC REGULATIONS

POST SELECTION CONDITIONS (ยง 14-9310)

9310.1. After the determination has been made to award a HAP Contract for a
   property, the following conditions must also be met before the HAP Contract
   can be issued.
   
   
   
   (a)	Relocation. Current tenants of units to receive the Partnership Program
   subsidy must be eligible for a Housing Choice Voucher. In addition, permanent
   displacement is prohibited.
   
   
   
   (1)	If the units to be assisted are occupied by tenants that are over the
   allowable income, and the application will require a reduction in the total
   number of units because there are no other vacant units in the building, or if
   families to be assisted are living in units that are not suitable to family
   size, the application will be rejected or partially assisted, at DCHA&#8217;s
   discretion.
   
   
   
   (2)	Temporary relocation to accommodate rehabilitation or repairs may not
   exceed twelve (12) months. Tenants will receive reimbursement from the Owner
   for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the
   temporary relocation, including moving costs to and from the temporary housing
   and increases in monthly housing costs.
   
   
   
   (b)	All properties will undergo a property inspection by DCHA or its
   contractor. The inspection will identify rehabilitation work that is necessary
   for the units to meet Housing Quality Standards and identify building systems,
   in danger of failure, which must be repaired or replaced.
   
   
   
   (c)	If the HAP Contract is used as a pledge to secure financing, DCHA must
   review the commitment documents to ensure that the financing does not modify
   the AHAP Contract or the HAP Contract and is not inconsistent with those
   contracts.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 5800 (June 21, 2002); as amended
   by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 974
   (January 23, 2004) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51
   DCR 5016 (May 14, 2004).
