                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUIRED APPLICATION INFORMATION (ยง 14-9306)

9306.1. DCHA may require any or all of the following information to be
   included in all applications in a format as provided in the announcement.
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the proposed property, including the number of units, the
   number of bedrooms, the size in square feet of each unit and the types
   amenities to be provided.
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the location of the property including the address,
   census tract and name of neighborhood.
   
   
   
   (c)	Evidence of site control which may include, deed, agreement of sale or
   option to purchase contract.
   
   
   
   (d)	If the property is new construction or substantial rehabilitation,
   evidence that the proposed new construction or substantial rehabilitation is
   permitted by current zoning ordinances.
   
   
   
   (e)	The proposed Contract Rent for each unit for which Partnership Program
   subsidy is requested.
   
   
   
   (f)	For substantial rehabilitation projects, a list and description of the
   number of households to be relocated and a relocation plan and budget.
   
   
   
   (g)	The identity of the Owner, the Development Team, if any, and other
   property principals.
   
   
   
   (h)	A list of properties owned and/or managed by the Owner or pertinent
   Development Team members, including the proposed property. Indicate the number
   of units in each property that receive housing assistance and identify the
   type of assistance received. Include any units currently occupied by Housing
   Choice Voucher Program participants. For each property listed, the proposal
   must disclose and explain:
   
   
   
   (1)	Current financial default of more than sixty (60) days duration;
   
   
   
   (2)	Mortgage assignment or workout arrangement;
   
   
   
   (3)	Foreclosure and/or bankruptcy;
   
   
   
   (4)	Litigation relating to financing or construction of the property that is
   pending or which was adjudicated within the past five (5) years with a finding
   against the Owner or Development Team;
   
   
   
   (5)	Real estate tax delinquencies; and
   
   
   
   (6)	Litigation by tenants, both residential and commercial.
   
   
   
   (i)	A description of the experience of the proposed management company over
   the past five (5) years.
   
   
   
   (j)	The Management and Maintenance Plan for the property.
   
   
   
   (k)	A financial package including sources and uses and showing evidence of
   financing commitments or conditional commitments and an operating budget.
   
   
   
   (l)	A timeline for property development showing projected date of occupancy.
   
   
   
   (m)	Completed certifications regarding commitment to comply with pertinent
   federal requirements.
   
   
   
   (n)	Other information as may be deemed necessary by DCHA.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 5800 (June 21, 2002); as amended
   by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 974
   (January 23, 2004) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51
   DCR 5016 (May 14, 2004).
