                                  DC REGULATIONS

THRESHOLD CRITERIA (ยง 14-9307)

9307.1. Where DCHA proceeds under any provision of Section 9304 of this Title,
   each application must meet the criteria of Section 9307 of this Title.
   
   
   
   (a)	The property must be eligible under the site and neighborhood standards
   set forth in Section 6005 of Chapter 60 of these regulations. Information and
   maps regarding eligible areas may be available from the DCHA Office of
   Planning and Development or the DCHA Housing Choice Voucher Program.
   
   
   
   (b)	For existing units, the property must reasonably be expected to be
   occupied within six (6) months of the date of award of an AHAP Contract and be
   in compliance with the Housing Quality Standards. For new construction and
   substantial rehabilitation, the property must reasonably be expected to be
   occupied within three (3) years of the date of award of an AHAP Contract and
   be completed in compliance with the Housing Quality Standards. The Housing
   Quality Standards are available by contacting the DCHA&#8217;s Housing Choice
   Voucher Program.
   
   
   
   (c)	A project must be financially feasible. This may be demonstrated by a ten
   (10) year operating pro-forma or other means, as specified by DCHA in its
   periodic announcements of Partnership Program subsidy availability.
   
   
   
   (d)	Applications requesting Partnership Program subsidy in order to provide
   supportive living environments for low income disabled families or persons may
   be awarded HAP Contracts only if the units to be subsidized were not
   previously available with supportive services for low income disabled
   families.
   
   
   
   (e)	Evidence of ownership, in a format acceptable to DCHA, must be provided
   with any application.
   
   
   
   (f)	All principals of the ownership and management entities, including the
   entity itself, must not be on the U.S. General Services Administration List of
   Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 5800 (June 21, 2002); as amended
   by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 974
   (January 23, 2004) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51
   DCR 5016 (May 14, 2004).
