                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROGRAM APPLICATION AND AWARD (ยง 14-9304)

9304.1. The Partnership Program seeks to be as flexible as possible in order
   to protect and increase the supply of affordable housing.
   
   
   
   (a)	DCHA may award Housing Assistance Payment (HAP) Contracts periodically on
   a competitive basis under the Partnership Program through published
   announcements.
   
   
   
   (i)	DCHA will advertise for two or more times, at least one week apart, in a
   newspaper of general circulation for that DCHA will accept applications for
   assistance.
   
   
   
   (ii)	The deadline for applications shall be at least 30 days after the date of
   the last publication.
   
   
   
   (iii)	The advertisement shall identify the estimated number of units that will
   be assisted.
   
   
   
   (iv)	The advertisement will not state that applications will only be
   considered if submitted in response to the advertisement, as DCHA may also
   receive and consider from time to time applications for allocations of
   Partnership Program funding assistance under Sections 9304.2 and 9304.3 hereof
   on a non-competitive basis.
   
   
   
   (b)	In addition to applications in response to advertisements, DCHA may also
   request owners with properties in eligible areas of the District of Columbia
   to respond to the advertised announcement and submit an application for the
   Partnership Program subsidy for their property.
   
   
   
   (c)	The advertisement shall identify the estimated number of units that will
   be assisted.
   
   
   
   (d)	The advertisement will not state that applications will only be considered
   if submitted in response to the advertisement, as DCHA may also receive and
   consider from time to time applications for allocations of Partnership Program
   funding assistance under Sections 9304.3 and 9404.4 hereof on a
   non-competitive basis.

   9304.2. If no advertised announcement is outstanding, an Owner of an eligible
   property may submit an application to DCHA. If the application meets the
   threshold criteria listed in Section 9307 of this Title, it may be eligible
   for an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment (AHAP) contract.
   Such an application will be reviewed and considered either upon receipt or
   under Section 9304.3 below or held for competitive consideration along with
   any applications received in response to an advertised announcement.

   9304.3. DCHA may proceed, after review by the Board of Commissioners, to award
   a Housing Assistance Payment (HAP) contract without using a competitive
   process for an eligible property that is:
   
   
   
   (a)	An existing or new property under a revitalization or development plan
   initiative of DCHA or a DCHA development subsidiary;
   
   
   
   (b)	Losing an operating subsidy formerly provided from another source that is
   no longer available which would result in displacement of eligible low income
   households; or
   
   
   
   (c)	In need of a rental subsidy in order to retain the housing as a resource
   for current and future eligible low income households.

   9304.4. DCHA may, in its sole discretion award a Housing Assistance Payment
   (AHAP) contract to the Owner of an eligible property who is developing an
   existing or new property under a revitalization or development plan initiative
   of DCHA or DCHA&#8217;s development subsidiary, DC Housing Enterprises. Such
   property must meet the threshold criteria of Section 9307 of this Title.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 5800 (June 21, 2002); as amended
   by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 974
   (January 23, 2004) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51
   DCR 5016 (May 14, 2004).
