                                  DC REGULATIONS

ACCIDENTS (ยง 31-906)

906.1. Each owner shall give to the Office immediate notice by telephone of
   each accident occurring within the District of Columbia accompanied by loss of
   human life or serious personal injury without loss of human life, arising
   directly or indirectly from or concerned with the maintenance or operation of
   any vehicle of the owner. If the accident occurs during other than official
   working hours of the Office, the notice shall be given as soon as possible
   thereafter.

   906.2. A written report of an accident involving loss of human life or
   personal injury shall be filed with the Office by the vehicle owner within
   three (3) business days after the occurrence of each accident. The report
   shall be made in a form as prescribed by the Office and shall include a copy
   of any Metropolitan Police Department, law enforcement, or incident report.

   906.3. Each accident attended with loss of human life or personal injury
   without loss of human life shall be reported immediately to the insurance
   carrier by the owner. All other accidents shall be reported by the owner to
   the insurance carrier within three days (3) after the occurrence of the
   accidents.
   
   
   
   906.4 	Each operator of a public vehicle for hire shall give immediate notice
   to the owner, company, partnership, or association under whose name, logo or
   insignia the vehicle is being operated, of each accident accompanied by loss
   of human life or personal injury, arising directly or indirectly from or
   connected with the maintenance or operation of the vehicle.
   
   
   
   906.5 	Each owner shall file with the Office before the tenth (10th) day of
   each month a monthly summary of all accidents which occurred in connection
   with the maintenance or operation of a taxicab or public vehicle for hire of
   the owner, including any record of criminal, civil, or administrative court
   action, or civil settlement entered into by the owner, or on his or her
   behalf.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: 14 DCRR ยง440.4, Special Edition (January 10, 1975); as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 9847, 9851 (November 18, 2011);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 12387 (August 30, 2013).
