                                  DC REGULATIONS

RETAIL QUALITY OF SERVICE MEASURES (§ 15-2720)

2720.1. All telecommunications service providers having more than ten thousand
   (10,000) access lines shall comply with and report on the following retail
   quality of service measures.

   2720.2. Installation Commitments Met measure – This measure evaluates the
   percentage of times that a telecommunications service provider completed the
   installation of the customer’s local exchange service by the end of the day
   on the installation date set by the telecommunications service provider.  The
   following requirements apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The standard for this measure is ninety-five percent (95%) completion by
   the installation date per month;
   
   
   
   (b)	Results for this measure shall be calculated by dividing the number of
   installation dates met by the total number of installation date commitments
   made.  Results shall be stated as a percentage rounded to the hundredth using
   traditional mathematical rounding;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Data collected for this measure shall be disaggregated into 	residential and
   business customer categories and reported by these 	categories; and
   
   
   
   (d)	If the installation date is missed due to customer fault, then it shall
   not be included in the sample to be measured.  Customer fault means that the
   customer is not ready for the installation or access to the customer premises
   is unavailable or unsafe, unless the customer requests a different
   installation date from the telecommunications service provider before the
   installation date.

   2720.3. Trouble Reports Per One hundred (100) Lines measure – This measure
   evaluates the number of access lines per one hundred (100) access lines for
   which a customer reports a trouble.  The following requirements apply:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The following types of access lines shall be included in the measurement:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Residential access lines;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Business Centrex lines;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Payphone lines; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Voice-grade PBX trunks;
   
   
   
   (b)	Customer trouble reports for the following services shall not be included
   in the measurement:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Dedicated non-switched services;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Wide area telephone service;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Integrated service digital network services;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The special service portion of PBX service;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Broadband services;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Voice mail and customer premises equipment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Inside wire; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Payphone equipment;
   
   
   
   (c)		If a customer has multiple access lines and more than one (1) access line
   experiences a network service problem, then each access line shall be counted
   separately;
   
   
   
   (d)		The standard for this measure is four (4) troubles per one hundred (100)
   lines; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Results for this measure shall be calculated by dividing the number of
   initial trouble reports by the total number of access lines.  This figure is
   then multiplied by one hundred (100).  Results shall be reported to the
   hundredth decimal place, rounded using traditional mathematical rounding
   principles.

   2720.4. Out-of-service Clearing Time measure – This measure evaluates the
   percentage of customer trouble reports that are classified as out-of-service
   problems that are cleared within twenty-four (24) hours.  The following
   requirements apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	For purposes of starting the twenty-four (24)-hour time clock to calculate
   the time period:
   
   
   
   (1)	If an outage report is received during normal business hours, then the
   time clock begins when the outage report is received by the telecommunications
   service provider;
   
   
   
   (2)	If an outage report is received outside of normal business hours, then the
   time clock begins at the beginning of the day on the next business day;
   
   
   
   (3)	If the telecommunications service provider is unable to gain access to the
   customer premises to repair the out-of-service condition, then the twenty-four
   (24)-hour time clock is stopped until the provider can gain access to the
   property; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Each telecommunications service provider shall establish its normal
   business hours in its customer bills and on a page that is readily accessible
   to consumers on its website;
   
   
   
   (b)		The standard for this measure shall be eighty percent (80%) clearance
   within twenty-four (24) hours;
   
   
   
   (c)	Results for this measure shall be calculated by dividing the number of
   trouble reports cleared within twenty-four (24) hours by the total number of
   out-of-service reports received.  The result shall be reported as a percentage
   rounded to the hundredth decimal place using traditional mathematical
   rounding; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Data collected for this measure shall be disaggregated into residential
   and business customer categories and reported by those categories.

   2720.5. Data for all measures shall be collected and reported on a District of
   Columbia-wide basis.

   2720.6. Exceptions &#8211; The measures shall not apply to the following
   services:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   UNE-P;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   UNE-L;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DS1;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DS0;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DS3;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   EEL;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Resold services;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   VoIP; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Failures caused by collocation or interconnection problems.

   2720.7. Reporting &#8211; Each telecommunications service provider shall
   collect and retain accurate data demonstrating their compliance with the
   measures in this chapter.  Data is to be collected on a monthly basis in a
   format established by Commission order.   The following applies to the date
   telecommunication service providers are required to provide:
   
   
   
   (a)	Each telecommunications service provider shall submit its monthly reports
   to the Commission on a quarterly basis, with the months of January, February,
   and March being submitted on April 30; the months of April, May, and June
   being submitted on July 30; the months of July, August, and September being
   submitted on October 30; and the months of October, November, and December
   being submitted on January 30 of the next year;
   
   
   
   (b)	If a telecommunications service provider fails a measure in a quarterly
   report, the provider shall file an explanation for the failure and a plan to
   remedy the failure.  If the failure was due to data clustering, customer
   error, or unforeseeable events, then the telecommunications service provider
   may request a waiver of the performance standard.  The request for a waiver
   shall contain a detailed explanation of the reasons for granting such a
   waiver; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Each telecommunications service provider shall retain its reporting data
   for three (3) years in the case that the records are audited by the
   Commission.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 7538 (September 15, 2006);
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 53 DCR
   4466 (June 2, 2006); as amended Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR
   9020, 9037 (October 21, 2011).
