                                  DC REGULATIONS

ABANDONMENT OF SERVICE TO THE LOCAL EXCHANGE VOICE SERVICES MARKET (§ 15-2706)

2706.1  	Applicability
   
   This section applies when a CLEC that has one (1) or more customers proposes
   to abandon the provisioning of telecommunications services to the local
   exchange voice services market or a portion of the local exchange voice
   services market (including, but not limited to, a class of customers such as
   residence customers or business customers, or customers located in specified
   geographic areas).  However, this section does not apply where a CLEC in the
   ordinary course of business is proposing only to:
   
   
   
   
   
   Terminate service to an individual customer for reasons uniquely applicable to
   that customer (for instance, because the customer has failed to pay charges
   due to the CLEC);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Withdraw a feature of a service (for instance, caller ID or call waiting);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Limit availability of a service so that the service is available only to the
   CLEC’s customers who already subscribe to that service; or
   
   
   
   (d) 	Change a rate, term or condition for a service.
   
   2706.2 	Definitions
   
   
   
   For the purposes of this section the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Acquiring Carrier &#8211; a local exchange carrier that has entered into an
   arrangement with an Exiting CLEC to acquire the Exiting CLEC’s customers.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Cut-Off Date &#8211; the date after which an Exiting CLEC’s customers will
   have to wait until their migration to the Acquiring Carrier is completed
   before they can obtain local exchange service from a different carrier.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Exiting CLEC &#8211; a CLEC that proposes to abandon the provisioning of
   telecommunications services to the local exchange voice services market, or a
   portion of the local exchange voice services market (including, but not
   limited to, a class of customers such as residential customers or business
   customers, or customers located in specified geographic areas).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Network Service Provider &#8211; a local exchange carrier that provides
   interconnection, network elements, telecommunications services, collocation,
   or other services, facilities, equipment or arrangements, that:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Are used by the Exiting CLEC to provide service to its customers; or
   
   
   
   (2) 	Will be used by a carrier (including, but not limited to, an Acquiring
   Carrier) that is acquiring one (1) or more of the Exiting CLEC’s customers,
   to provide service to those customers.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Priority/Essential Customers &#8211; any ambulance, police or fire service,
   hospital, national security agency, or civil defense organization, or any
   customer who has obtained Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP)
   authorization from the Federal Government. 
   
   
   
   2706.3 	Exit Plan
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An Exiting CLEC must file an Exit Plan with the Commission at least ninety
   (90) days in advance of the Exiting CLEC’s proposed discontinuance of
   service date.  Upon good cause shown, the Commission may establish an
   alternative date by which the Exiting CLEC must file its Exit Plan.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Exit Plan filed by the Exiting CLEC with the Commission must include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A statement specifying the Exiting CLEC’s proposed discontinuance of service
   date and, if there is an Acquiring Carrier, the proposed Cut-Off Date;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A sample of the initial notice letter that will be sent to the Exiting
   CLEC’s customers pursuant to subection 2706.5;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Plans for follow-up customer notification arrangements, such as a second
   letter, phone calls or bill inserts;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A date by which the Exiting CLEC’s customers must select a new local
   exchange carrier;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Contact names and telephone numbers for the Exiting CLEC’s cutover
   coordinator, regulatory contact and other pertinent contact personnel (such as
   customer service record (CSR) and provisioning contacts);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any arrangements made for an Acquiring Carrier;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Steps to be taken with the number code and/or pooling administrator to
   transfer NXX and thousand number blocks while preserving number portability
   for numbers within the code;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The current customer serving arrangements (for example, UNE-Platform,
   UNE-Loop, resale or full facilities) and the underlying Network Service
   Providers;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To the extent feasible, a statement as to the following:  
   
   
   
   (A) 	whether there are any customers for whom the Exiting CLEC is the only
   provider of facilities;
   
   
   
   (B) 	the number of customers for whom the Exiting CLEC is the only provider of
   facilities; and
   
   
   
   (C) 	the number of lines for which the Exiting CLEC is the only provider of
   facilities;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The number of customers impacted;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A statement setting out: 
   
   
   
   (A) 	The format in which the Exiting CLEC’s customer service records (CSRs)
   are being kept,
   
   
   
   (B) 	What data elements are in these CSRs; and
   
   
   
   (C) 	How the CSRs can be obtained by other carriers.  Data elements include:
   
   
   
   Billing telephone number;
   
   
   
   (ii)	Working telephone number;
   
   
   
   (iii)	Complete customer billing name and address;
   
   
   
   (iv)	Directory listing information, including name, 	address, telephone number
   and listing type;
   
   
   
   Complete service address;
   
   
   
   (vi)	Current Primary Interexchange Carrier selection (inter/intraLATA toll
   service), including freeze status;
   
   
   
   (vii)	Local service freeze status;
   
   
   
   (viii)	All vertical features (such as, custom calling, hunting);
   
   
   
   (ix)	Options (such as, Lifeline, 900 blocking, toll blocking, remote call
   forwarding, off premises extensions);
   
   
   
   (x)	Tracking number or transaction number (for example, purchase order
   number);
   
   
   
   (xi)	Circuit identification information with associated telephone number;
   
   
   
   (xii)	Service configuration information (such as, UNE-Platform, UNE-Loop,
   resale or full facilities);
   
   
   
   (xiii)	Identification of the Network Service Provider(s); and
   
   
   
   (xiv)	Identification of any line sharing/line splitting on the migrating
   customer’s line;
   
   
   
   (12)	Any transfer of assets or control that requires Commission approval;
   
   
   
   (13)     	Plans to modify and/or cancel tariff(s);
   
   
   
   (14)    	Plans for reimbursement of switchover fees;
   
   
   
   (15)    	Plans for treatment of customer deposits, credits, and/or termination
   liabilities or penalties;
   
   
   
   (16)     	A description of the arrangements made for payment of any   
   outstanding taxes, fees, or other amounts owed to the                     
   Commission or any other agency of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (17)    	Plans for the transfer, removal or abandonment of any Exiting   CLEC
   equipment or facilities on the customers’ premises;
   
   
   
   (18)    	A statement on whether the Acquiring Carrier will be   responsible
   for handling any complaints filed, or otherwise raised, against the Exiting
   CLEC prior to or during the migration of customers to the Acquiring Carrier;
   and
   
   
   
   (19)    	Plans for unlocking the E911 database, including the letter  
   detailed in subection 2706.8.
   
   
   
   (c)	If the Exit Plan contains information that the Exiting CLEC claims are
   confidential or proprietary, the Exiting CLEC may seek confidential treatment
   of the confidential or proprietary information in accordance with 15 DCMR §
   150.  To the extent provided by 15 DCMR § 150 and other provisions of
   applicable law, copies of the confidential version of the Exit Plan shall be
   available to the Office of the People’s Counsel, carriers, and other
   interested persons.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If the Exiting CLEC seeks confidential treatment of information contained in
   the Exit Plan, the Exiting CLEC shall also file with the Commission a version
   of the Exit Plan that omits the confidential information.  The Exiting CLEC
   shall serve the non-confidential version of the Exit Plan upon the Office of
   the People’s Counsel.  The non-confidential version of the Exit Plan shall
   be available from the Commission to carriers and other interested persons.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Within fifteen (15) days after receiving the Exit Plan, the Commission shall
   either approve the Exit Plan, reject the Exit Plan, or request supplemental
   information.  If within fifteen (15) days after receiving the Exit Plan the
   Commission does not either approve the Exit Plan, reject the Exit Plan, or
   request supplemental information, the Exit Plan shall be deemed approved.  If
   the Commission requests supplemental information, the Exiting CLEC has fifteen
   (15) days to provide the Commission with such supplemental information.  If
   within fifteen (15) days after receiving the supplemental information the
   Commission does not either approve the Exit Plan, reject the Exit Plan, or
   request additional supplemental information, the Exit Plan shall be deemed
   approved.
   
   
   
   2706.4  	Industry Notification
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   When the Commission receives notice of the Exiting CLEC’s proposed
   discontinuance of service, the Commission Secretary shall post notice of the
   proposed discontinuance of service on the Commission’s website under
   “Report of Telephone Companies Exiting the Local Exchange Market” at 
   www.dcpsc.org.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   When the Commission receives notice of the Exiting CLEC’s proposed
   discontinuance of service, the Commission Secretary shall send notice of the
   proposed discontinuance of service to a carrier contact list.  This list shall
   be located on the Commission’s website and shall include carriers that have
   asked to be included on the list.  Each carrier on the list shall be
   responsible for maintaining the accuracy of its information on the list.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Within five (5) days after the Exiting CLEC files its Exit Plan with the
   Commission:
   
   
   
   (1) 	The Exiting CLEC shall give notice to its Network Service Providers of
   its proposed discontinuance of service; and
   
   
   
   (2) 	The Acquiring Carrier shall give notice to its Network Service Providers
   of its proposed acquisition of the Exiting CLEC’s customers.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If necessary, a conference call may be established by the Commission Staff in
   order to address potential problem areas and procedures.  The persons invited
   to participate in the conference call shall include all carriers providing
   service in the District of Columbia, the Exiting CLEC’s Network Service
   Providers, the Acquiring Carrier’s Network Service Providers, the Commission
   Staff, the Office of the People’s Counsel, and such other persons as the
   Commission Staff deems appropriate.
   
   
   
   2706.5       	Customer Notification
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If there is an Acquiring Carrier, the Exiting CLEC and the Acquiring Carrier
   must give written notice to the Exiting CLEC’s customers of the Exiting
   CLEC’s proposed discontinuance of service and the proposed transfer of the
   customers to the Acquiring Carrier.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If there is not an Acquiring Carrier, the Exiting CLEC must give written
   notice to its customers of its proposed discontinuance of service.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The written notice to be provided pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) must be
   given at least sixty (60) days in advance of the Exiting CLEC’s proposed
   discontinuance of service date. Upon good cause shown, the Commission may
   establish an alternative customer notice period; provided that the customer
   notice must be given at least forty-five (45) days in advance of the Exiting
   CLEC’s proposed discontinuance of service date.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The notice letter must comply with Commission and Federal Communications
   Commission (FCC) requirements.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Contents
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Commission shall adopt by order model customer notification letters that
   comply with Commission and FCC regulations.  A customer notice letter issued
   pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) must comply with the Commission’s
   applicable model customer notification letter. 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The customer notification letter must include the following information:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Statement that the Exiting CLEC will no longer be providing the customer’s
   local telephone service;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If there is an Acquiring Carrier, the identity of the Acquiring Carrier;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The customer’s right to choose an alternative carrier;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Clear instructions to the customer regarding the choice of an alternative
   carrier;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The customer’s need to take prompt action when there is no Acquiring
   Carrier;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Time deadlines for customer action in accordance with the Commission’s
   rules;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A statement regarding switchover fees and the Exiting CLEC’s plans for
   reimbursement of switchover fees;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The customer’s responsibility for payment of telephone bills during the
   migration period;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   When the customer is being transferred to an Acquiring Carrier, information
   about the lifting and reestablishment of preferred carrier freezes;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Applicable information about long distance service and whether it may be
   impacted by the change in local exchange carrier;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Exiting CLEC’s plans for treatment of customer deposits, credits, and/or
   termination liabilities or penalties;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Exiting CLEC’s plans for transfer, removal or abandonment of any Exiting
   CLEC equipment or facilities on the customer’s premises;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Information on the Acquiring Carrier’s services and rates, terms and
   conditions, and on the means by which the Acquiring Carrier will notify the
   customer of any changes to these rates, terms and conditions;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Whether the Acquiring Carrier will be responsible for handling any complaints
   filed, or otherwise raised, against the Exiting CLEC prior to or during the
   migration of customers to the Acquiring Carrier;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any other information required by applicable law (including, but not limited
   to, any other information required by the Commission or the FCC);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Toll-free telephone numbers for the Exiting CLEC and the Acquiring Carrier;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Contact information for the Commission; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Contact information for the Office of the People’s Counsel.
   
   
   
   (3) 	If there is an Acquiring Carrier, the customer notice letter must contain
   a Cut-Off Date and a statement that customers who have not selected an
   alternative carrier by the Cut-Off Date will be transferred to the Acquiring
   Carrier.  When notice is given to the customer sixty (60) days in advance of
   the proposed discontinuance of service date, the Cut-Off Date shall be thirty
   (30) days before the proposed discontinuance of service date.  When notice is
   given to the customer less than sixty (60) days in advance of the proposed
   discontinuance of service date, the Cut-Off Date shall be as specified by the
   Commission.  The notification process must allow the customer thirty (30) days
   to select a new carrier.  The Acquiring Carrier may not migrate the Exiting
   CLEC’s customers to the Acquiring Carrier until after the Cut-Off Date.
   
   
   
   (4)  	If there is not an Acquiring Carrier, the Exiting CLEC must give at
   least one (1) additional notice to each customer who, twenty (20) days prior
   to the proposed discontinuance of service date, has not migrated to a new
   carrier.  This additional notice must be given no later than fifteen (15) days
   prior to the proposed discontinuance of service date or, upon a showing to the
   Commission that fifteen (15) days advance notice is not feasible, at the
   earliest possible date, as approved by the Commission.  The form of the
   additional notice could include  a follow-up letter, a telephone call to the
   customer, a bill insert, or any other means of direct contact with the
   customer.
   
   
   
   2706.6 	Mass Migration Process
   
   
   
   (a)  		As soon as is feasible after the Exiting CLEC’s Exit Plan is filed
   with the Commission, the Exiting CLEC and the Acquiring 	Carrier shall
   establish with their applicable Network Service Providers appropriate
   arrangements for migration of the Exiting CLEC’s customers to the Acquiring
   Carrier.  The Exiting CLEC and the Acquiring Carrier shall submit to their
   applicable Network 	Service Providers any service orders and information
   needed to carry out the migration.  Such service orders and information shall
   be submitted sufficiently in advance of the Exiting CLEC’s proposed
   discontinuance of service date that the migration will be able to be completed
   by the proposed discontinuance of service date.
   
   
   
   (b) 	Carriers other than the Acquiring Carrier who are acquiring the Exiting
   CLEC’s customers shall submit to their applicable Network Service Providers
   any service orders and information needed to carry out the migration.  To the
   extent feasible, such service orders and information shall be submitted
   sufficiently in advance of the Exiting CLEC’s proposed discontinuance of
   service date that the migration will be able to be completed by the proposed
   discontinuance of service date.
   
   
   
   (c)	The Exiting CLEC shall make available to its Network Service Provider, its
   customers’ new carriers and these carriers’ Network Service Providers, the
   CSR information needed to migrate the Exiting CLEC’s customers, and any
   other information reasonably needed to migrate the Exiting CLEC’s customers.
    Upon request, the Exiting CLEC shall also provide to Staff CSR information
   for customers whose particular serving arrangements may create migration
   problems.
   
   
   
   (d) 			 The Exiting CLEC must track the progress of the migration of its
   customers and provide the Commission with progress reports.  The reports shall
   contain a count of the customers that remain in service with the Exiting CLEC
   and such other information as shall be specified by the Commission.  The
   reports shall be provided at such intervals as shall be specified by the
   Commission.  Subject to 15 DCMR § 150 and other provisions of applicable law,
   upon request by the Office of the People’s Counsel, the Exiting CLEC shall
   provide copies of the progress reports to the Office of the People’s
   Counsel.
   
   
   
   (e)  	Except as authorized by the Commission pursuant to subection 2706.3(e)
   or as otherwise authorized by the Commission, the Exiting CLEC shall not
   discontinue provision of service until all of its customers who will be
   affected by its discontinuance of service have migrated to other carriers.
   
   
   
   2706.7  	NXX Code Transfers
   
   
   
   If the Exiting CLEC has any NXX codes or thousand number blocks assigned, it
   must make transfer arrangements with the code 	administrator at least
   sixty-six (66) days prior to the proposed discontinuance of service date or by
   such earlier date as shall be specified by the code administrator.
   
   
   
   2706.8  	E- 911
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Exiting CLEC must unlock all of its telephone numbers in the E911 database
   in accordance with the National Emergency Numbering Association’s (NENA)
   standards.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Exiting CLEC must submit a letter to the appropriate E911 service provider
   authorizing the E911 service provider to unlock any remaining E911 records
   after the Exiting CLEC has discontinued provision of service.  This letter
   must be provided at least thirty (30) days prior to the Exiting CLEC’s
   discontinuance of service.
   
   
   
   2706.9            Freezes
   
   
   
   All customers who have preferred carrier freezes on the services affected by a
   migration to an Acquiring Carrier will be transferred to the Acquiring
   Carrier, unless they have selected a different carrier by the Cut-Off Date. 
   The Exiting CLEC shall lift existing preferred carrier freezes on services
   involved in a migration to an Acquiring Carrier.  An Acquiring Carrier shall
   advise the customers that it is acquiring from the Exiting CLEC that if they
   want preferred carrier freezes, they must contact the Acquiring Carrier to
   arrange for such freezes.

   2706.10. Reservation of Rights
   
   
   
   Nothing in this section 2706 shall limit, or delay the right to exercise, any
   right that an incumbent local exchange carrier, CLEC, or other person may have
   under an interconnection or resale agreement, tariff, or otherwise, to require
   payment for, to decline to provide, or to suspend or terminate,
   interconnection, network elements, telecommunications services, collocation,
   or other services, facilities, equipment, or arrangements.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 4664 (May 25, 2001); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 9998, 10001 (October 29, 2004); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 724 (January 28, 2005); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12144 (November 28, 2008); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 9020, 9027 (October
   21, 2011).
