                                  DC REGULATIONS

ABANDONMENT OF SERVICE (§ 15-2705)

2705.1. Any CLEC certificated by the Commission that proposes to abandon the
   provisioning of telecommunications services in the District of Columbia shall
   file an application with the Commission no later than ninety (90) days prior
   to the proposed date of abandonment of service.  This section 2705 shall apply
   if a CLEC proposes to abandon the provisioning of telecommunications services
   in the District of Columbia, either in whole or in part (including, but not
   limited to, for a class of customers, such as residential customers or
   business customers or for customers located in specified geographic areas). 
   However, this section does not apply where a CLEC in the ordinary course of
   business is proposing only to:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Terminate service to an individual customer for reasons uniquely
   applicable to that customer (for instance, because the customer has failed to
   pay charges due to the CLEC);
   
   
   
   (b) 	Withdraw a feature of a service (for instance, caller ID or call
   waiting);
   
   
   
   (c) 	Limit availability of a service so that the service is available only to
   the CLEC’s customers who already subscribe to that service; or
   
   
   
   (d) 	Change a rate, term or condition for a service.

   2705.2. The abandonment of service application shall contain, in the following
   order and specifically identify the following information:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The applicant’s name, address, telephone number, fax number, the name
   under which the applicant is providing service in the District of Columbia,
   the date and order number of the Commission order that authorized the
   applicant to provide telecommunications services in the District of Columbia,
   and the proposed abandonment of service date;
   
   
   
   (b)  	A complete explanation of the reasons for the proposed abandonment of
   service, including, but not limited to, a statement as to whether the
   applicant proposes to abandon the provisioning of telecommunications services
   in the District of Columbia in whole, or only in part, and if only in part, a
   description of the proposed abandonment (for instance, for a class of
   customers, such as residential customers or business customers, or, customers
   located in specified geographic areas);
   
   
   
   (c) 	A plan for the refund of any deposits collected from affected customers,
   with accrued interest less any amounts due to the applicant;
   
   
   
   (d) 	If the applicant proposes to abandon the provisioning of
   telecommunications services in the District of Columbia in whole, a
   description of the arrangements made for payment of any outstanding taxes,
   fees, or other amounts owed to the Commission or any other agency of the
   District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (e)  	A plan for the applicant to remove, maintain, or transfer any facilities
   in the District of Columbia that would otherwise be abandoned;
   
   
   
   (f)  	A statement of the number of customers, classified by residential or
   business customer, affected by the proposed abandonment of service;
   
   
   
   (g) 	A statement of the number of customers affected by the proposed
   abandonment of service for whom the applicant receives universal service
   support;
   
   
   
   (h)  	A statement of the date on which notice of the proposed abandonment of
   service was or will be sent to affected customers;
   
   
   
   (i)  	A copy of the notice that was or will be sent to affected customers; and
   
   
   
   (j)  	An affidavit verifying that all of the information in the application is
   true and correct.

   2705.3. The applicant shall serve a copy of its abandonment of service
   application on the Office of the People’s Counsel on the same day that the
   application is filed with the Commission.

   2705.4. Any CLEC that proposes to abandon service in the District of Columbia
   shall notify each customer affected by the proposed abandonment in accordance
   with the customer notice provisions of subsection 2706.5.  Notice to customers
   shall be given in accordance with the customer notice provisions of subsection
   2706.5 even if the proposed abandonment of service is not otherwise subject to
   compliance with section 2706.

   2705.5. The applicant shall return all customer deposits affected by the
   proposed abandonment of service, with accrued interest less any amounts due to
   the applicant within seventy-five (75) days of the abandonment of
   certification application filing date.  Upon full payment of these deposits,
   the applicant shall notify the Commission that all such deposits have been
   paid.

   2705.6. The applicant shall reimburse its customers affected by the proposed
   abandonment of service for any carrier charges including, but not limited to,
   service order charges and service installation charges directly associated
   with the transfer of those customers to the incumbent local exchange carrier
   or another CLEC and otherwise chargeable to the customers, as long as the
   transfer occurs within thirty (30) days of the notification to the customer of
   the applicant’s abandonment of service.  Except where the customer is
   transferred to an Acquiring Carrier (as defined in subsection 2706.2) or to an
   “acquiring carrier” (as such term is used in 47 C.F.R. § 64.1120), the
   amount of the carrier charges that an applicant shall be required by this
   subsection to reimburse to a customer shall not exceed:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Fifty dollars ($50) per residence service line; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	One hundred dollars ($100) per business service line.

   2705.7. The Commission may by order annually increase the maximum amount of
   the carrier charges to be reimbursed by the applicant under subsection 2705.6
   by a percentage amount equal to the percentage increase in the Consumer Price
   Index – All Urban Consumers applicable to the District of Columbia as
   determined by the United States Government.  Upon full payment of these
   amounts, the applicant shall notify the Commission that all such amounts have
   been paid.

   2705.8. Within ninety (90) days after receiving the abandonment application,
   the Commission shall either approve the application, reject the application,
   or request supplemental information.

   2705.9. If, within ninety (90) days after receiving the abandonment
   application, the Commission does not either approve the application, reject
   the application, or request supplemental information, the application shall be
   deemed approved.

   2705.10. If the Commission requests supplemental information, the applicant
   has fifteen (15) days to provide the Commission with such supplemental
   information.

   2705.11. If the Commission requests supplemental information and, by the later
   of thirty (30) days after receiving the supplemental information or ninety
   (90) days after receiving the abandonment application, the Commission does not
   either approve the application, reject the application, or request additional
   supplemental information, the application shall be deemed approved.

   2705.12. Approval of the abandonment of service application shall be subject
   to compliance with the applicable provisions of section 2706 and the applicant
   shall comply with the applicable provisions of section 2706.

   2705.13. The Commission shall approve an abandonment of service application
   if:
   
   
   
   (a)  	The CLEC has satisfied outstanding debts owed the Commission or any
   agency of the District of Columbia government;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The applicant has complied with this section 2705, the applicable
   provisions of section 2706, and all other applicable Commission rules and
   requirements of applicable law;
   
   
   
   (c) 	The applicant has developed and implemented a comprehensive plan for
   returning customer deposits to customers affected by the proposed abandonment
   of service, with accrued interest less any amounts due to the applicant, and,
   if the applicant proposes to abandon its provisioning of telecommunication
   services in the District in whole, satisfying outstanding debts owed the
   Commission and/or other District agencies;
   
   
   
   (d) 	The applicant has satisfied all switchover fees incurred by its customers
   affected by the proposed abandonment of service as required by subsection
   2705.6; and
   
   
   
   (e) 		The approval of the abandonment of service application would serve the
   public interest.

   2705.14. No CLEC shall abandon service in the District of Columbia without
   Commission approval.  Upon receiving Commission approval, the applicant shall
   void any existing interconnection agreements by informing the Commission and
   any telecommunications service provider with which the applicant has signed an
   interconnection agreement of the abandonment of service.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 4664 (May 25, 2001); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 10001 (October 29, 2004); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 724 (January 28, 2005); as amended by
   Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12144 (November 28, 2008); as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 9020, 9023 (October 21, 2011).
