                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR SERVICE OUTAGES AND INCIDENTS RESULTING IN PERSONAL
INJURY OR DEATH (§ 15-2740)

2740.1. The provisions of this section, except as otherwise reflected, shall
   apply to all telecommunications service providers serving at least one hundred
   (100) customers or one hundred (100) access lines, excluding
   telecommunications service providers that utilize local access obtained from
   the incumbent local exchange provider or another telecommunications service
   provider via resold or commercially negotiated agreements.

   2740.2. Telecommunications service providers shall report to the Commission
   and to the Office of the People’s Counsel certain telecommunications service
   outages and disruptions.  Telecommunications service providers shall report
   incidents that result in the loss of human life or personal injury requiring
   hospitalization directly or indirectly arising from or connected with the
   maintenance or operation of the telecommunications system within the District
   of Columbia.

   2740.3. All service outages shall be communicated by telephone or email to the
   Commission and the Office of the People’s Counsel as soon as practicable,
   but not later than one (1) hour after the telecommunications service provider
   has determined that a service outage has occurred.

   2740.4. Each telephone or email communication rendered by the
   telecommunications service provider subsequent to a service outage shall, at a
   minimum, state clearly the following information:
   
   
   
   		(a)	The date and time the telecommunications service provider determines
   	that the service outage has occurred;
   
   
   
   	(b)	The location of the service outage(s);
   
   
   
   	(c)	The estimated total number of customers out of service;
   
   
   
   	(d)	A preliminary assessment as to the cause of the service outage(s); and
   
   
   
   	(e)	The estimated repair and/or restoration time.
   
   
   
   2740.5 	If the service outage is required to be reported to the Federal
   Communications Commission (FCC) pursuant to 47 C.F.R. §§ 4.9 and 4.11, then
   the telecommunications service provider shall file a copy of the same reports
   with the Commission and the Office of the People’s Counsel.

   2740.6. If the service outage occurs during the Commission’s business hours,
   the telecommunications service provider shall file the relevant Notification
   Communications Outage Report (NORS) required by 47 C.F.R. §§ 4.9 and 4.11
   with the Commission and the Office of the People’s Counsel within two (2)
   hours after the NORS has been filed with the FCC.

   2740.7. For service outages occurring outside of the Commission’s normal
   business hours, the telecommunications service provider shall file with the
   Commission and the Office of the People’s Counsel within one (1) hour of the
   next business day the relevant NORS filed with the Federal Communications
   Commission pursuant to 47 C.F.R. §§ 4.9 and 4.11.

   2740.8. For those service outages that are reported to the FCC, within one (1)
   business day of submission of the Initial Communications Outage Report and the
   Final Communications Outage Report to the FCC pursuant to 47 C.F.R. §§ 4.9
   and 4.11, the telecommunications service provider shall file a copy of the
   District-specific portion of those reports with the Commission and the Office
   of the People’s Counsel.

   2740.9. If the telecommunications service provider withdraws any report that
   is submitted to the FCC pursuant to 47 C.F.R. §§ 4.9 and 4.11 as well as the
   Commission and the Office of the People’s Counsel, the telecommunications
   service provider shall file with the Commission and the Office of the
   People’s Counsel the withdrawal filed with the Federal Communications
   Commission within one (1) business day of submission of the withdrawal.  The
   telecommunications service provider shall also explain the reasons for the
   withdrawal.

   2740.10. The telecommunications service provider shall provide its customer
   service representatives or other appropriate employees with specific
   restoration information, including estimated restoration times, to enable the
   customer service representatives or appropriate employees to respond to
   customer inquiries regarding the service outage.

   2740.11. The telecommunications service provider shall file a written report
   concerning all service outages with the Public Service Commission and the
   Office of People’s Counsel within five (5) days following the end of a
   service outage. Each written report shall, at a minimum, state clearly the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the service outage(s) and/or incident(s) and information
   as to the cause of the event(s);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The actual repair and restoration times of the service outage(s) and/or
   incident(s);
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of the restoration effort;
   
   
   
   (d)	The total number of customers affected by the service outage;
   
   
   
   (e)	A self-assessment of the telecommunications service provider’s
   restoration efforts in the District of Columbia; and
   
   
   
   (f)	A description of the steps that the telecommunications service providers
   will undertake to prevent such outages in the future or improve repair times
   and processes.

   2740.12. The Commission may request additional information concerning any
   service outage, if necessary.

   2740.13. Telecommunications service providers shall communicate by telephone
   or email all incidents that result in the loss of human life and/or personal
   injury requiring hospitalization, directly or indirectly arising from or
   connected with the telecommunications service provider’s maintenance or
   operation, to the Commission and the Office of the People’s Counsel within
   one (1) hour upon receiving notice of the incident.

   2740.14. Each telephone or email communication concerning the loss of human
   life and/or personal injury requiring hospitalization shall, at a minimum,
   state clearly the following information:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	The location of the incident(s);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	The date and time of the incident(s);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	The total number of persons affected;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	A brief description of the incident; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Identification of a contact person and contact information.

   2740.15. A written report concerning the loss of human life and/or personal
   injury requiring hospitalization shall be submitted to the Commission and to
   the Office of the People’s Counsel within thirty (30) days after the
   completion of any internal investigation or notification of the completion of
   any governmental investigation of any incident that results in the loss of
   life and/or personal injury requiring hospitalization, directly or indirectly
   arising from or connected with the telecommunications service provider’s
   maintenance or operations.  If there is no investigation, the report shall be
   submitted thirty (30) days after the incident.  The report shall include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A description of the incident(s) and information as to the cause of the
   event(s);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	The location of the incident(s);
   
   
   
   (c)  	The exact date and time in which the incident(s) occurred;
   
   
   
   (d)  	The total number of persons affected;
   
   
   
   (e)	Any other known relevant information about the incident not provided   in
   the original notification; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The steps the telecommunications service provider will take to prevent
   such an occurrence in the future.

   2740.16. The Commission may request, if necessary, additional information
   concerning any incident that results in the loss of life and/or personal
   injury requiring hospitalization, directly or indirectly arising from or
   connected with the telecommunications service provider’s maintenance or
   operations.

   2740.17. Notifications of PSAP service outages communicated under subsection
   2740.4, all FCC NORS reports, and all reports filed under subsections 2740.9
   and 2740.13 are presumed to be confidential.  Challenges to the
   confidentiality of these reports shall follow the procedures outlined in the
   Commission’s rules governing confidential and proprietary information.  All
   initial reports for all service outages except for PSAP service outages filed
   under this section are not presumed to be confidential.
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 11993 (December 14,
   2007), incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at
   54 DCR 9404 (September 28, 2007); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at
   57 DCR 2302 (March 19, 2010), incorporating by reference the text of Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 141 (January 1, 2010); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 8023 (September 3, 2010); as amended by Notice
   of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 781 (February 3, 2012); as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 3153 (April 20, 2012).
