                                  DC REGULATIONS

FAMILY SHARE OF RENT (ยง 14-8303)

8303.1. Family Share of Payment. The family share of the gross rent stated in
   the lease is calculated by subtracting the amount of the monthly housing
   assistance payment from the gross rent. The family must pay the difference
   between the maximum housing assistance payment and the gross rent (if
   determined to be reasonable) due to the Owner.

   8303.2. Limits on DCHA Payments. DCHA may not use housing assistance payments,
   or any other program funds, including administrative fee reserves, to pay any
   part of the family share.

   8303.3. Maximum Family Share of Rent. DCHA may only approve a tenancy for a
   unit if:
   
   
   
   (a)	For the initial occupancy period (usually one year), if the gross rent, as
   determined to be reasonable by DCHA, does not result in the maximum Family
   Share exceeding 40% of the household&#8217;s adjusted monthly income;
   
   
   
   (b)	After initial occupancy, there is no limit (other than rent reasonableness
   determinations) on the gross rent and percent of adjusted monthly income that
   a participating household may elect to pay as the Family Share.

   8303.4. Other Fees and Charges. Leases or separate agreements providing for
   additional fees and charges are subject to the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Additional fees and charges will NOT be approved if:
   
   
   
   (i)	The cost of meals or supportive services is included in the rent to the
   Owner, with such costs being included in the calculation of reasonable rent;
   
   
   
   (ii)	Non-payment of such charges is grounds for termination of the lease;
   
   
   
   (iii)	Inclusion of any extra fees or charges are for items that are
   customarily included in rent in the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (iv)	Fees or charges are included for items provided at no additional cost to
   unsubsidized tenants in the premises.
   
   
   
   (b)	DCHA is not liable for unpaid charges for any additional items whether set
   forth in the lease or covered by separate agreements;
   
   
   
   (c)	If the tenant and owner have come to an agreement on the amount of charges
   for a specific item that is not prohibited under (a) above, and so long as
   those charges are reasonable and not a substitute for higher rent, they will
   be allowed. Costs for seasonal items can be spread out over 12 months.
   
   
   
   (d)	Copies of all separate agreements must be provided to DCHA.

   8303.5. Negotiating Rent. Negotiations over the gross rent to the Owner are
   conducted between the Owner and the Household DCHA may assist the Household in
   the negotiations at the request of the Household.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 577
   (January 21, 2005); as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking
   published at 52 DCR 5094 (May 27, 2005); as amended by Notice of Final
   Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 8631 (September 23, 2005).
