                                  DC REGULATIONS

REASONABLE RENT TO OWNER (§ 14-8301)

8301.1. Lease Approval. DCHA may not approve a lease unless it determines
   that:
   
   
   
   (a)	The initial gross rent does not exceed the reasonable rent as determined
   by DCHA in accordance with this Chapter; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The family portion of the rent does not exceed forty percent (40%) of the
   participant&#8217;s adjusted monthly income.

   8301.2. When Determinations Required. DCHA is required to make a determination
   of rent reasonableness upon any of the following eventualities:
   
   
   
   (a)	At initial lease up, or lease up upon transfer;
   
   
   
   (b)	Before any increase in rent to Owner is approved;
   
   
   
   (c)	If sixty (60) days or more before the family&#8217;s annual reexamination
   date there is a 5% or greater decrease in the published FMR for the unit size
   as compared to the previous FMR;
   
   
   
   (d)	At the election of DCHA;
   
   
   
   (e)	At the discretion of the US Department of Housing and Urban Development.

   8301.3. Reasonable Rent Determination. The reasonable rent determination shall
   be determined based on the methodology described below in this Section 8301.3.
    At any time a rent determination is undertaken in accordance with 8301.2
   above, the following process is used for determining whether the gross rent
   proposed to be charged by the Owner is reasonable.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DCHA when determining reasonable rent always considers items (i) through (ix)
   and may consider items (x) and (xi) at its option as follows: square feet, 
   number of bedrooms, maintenance services provided under the lease, location,
   unit type, quality, date built, amenities included in the lease, utilities if
   provided by Owner, number of bathrooms, other services provided under the
   lease.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DCHA maintains an automated database which includes data on rents of
   comparable unassisted units in the same sub-market or a contiguous sub-market
   for use by DCHA staff in making rent reasonableness determinations.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DCHA staff shall determine the average rent within each sub-market, based on
   the data collected during rent reasonableness determinations.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DCHA shall conduct an annual District-wide evaluation to determine the average
   contract rents for all unit sizes and/or types in each sub-market.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The District-wide evaluation shall be done in accordance with the rent
   reasonableness factors set forth in 8301.3(a) to determine reasonable contract
   rents.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The results of the District-wide evaluation shall be made available to all
   HCVP landlords and participants.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The results shall set forth the allowable contract rents for all unit sizes
   and/or types in each sub-market of the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DCHA shall monitor the rental market in the District of Columbia and if the
   market changes by ten percent (10%) or more, DCHA shall conduct a mid-year
   evaluation for certain sub-markets.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DCHA shall make available such mid-year evaluations to all HCVP landlords and
   participants.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   HCVP landlords shall be able to submit to the DCHA rents for comparable
   unassisted units for consideration by the DCHA.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any units submitted by a HCVP landlord for consideration by the HCVP shall
   meet the criteria of the unit size and/or type within the sub-market or a
   contiguous sub-market; provided however, DCHA’s determination of the
   sub-market rent shall be final.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DCHA does not establish minimum base rent amounts.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DCHA shall use at least two comparable market rents for unassisted units for
   each rent determination with all comparables based on the rent that the unit
   would command if leased in the current market within the last twelve (12)
   months.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The data for other unassisted units may be gathered from newspapers, realtors,
   professional associations, inquiries of owners, market surveys, and other
   available sources.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The market areas for rent reasonableness are indicated by sub-markets, within
   the District of Columbia and the determination of reasonable rent is made by
   comparable rents on similar units within the same or nearby sub-market.

   8301.4. Owner Information. The Owner is required to provide DCHA with
   information if requested on rents charged by the owner for other units owned
   by the Owner either at the same premises or elsewhere in the District of
   Columbia.

   8301.5. Owner Certification. Acceptance of each monthly housing assistance
   payment is a certification by the Owner that the gross rent to the owner is
   not more than rent charged by the owner for comparable unassisted units in the
   premises for multi-unit premises, or in the same market area for single unit
   premises.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 577
   (January 21, 2005); as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking
   published at 52 DCR 5094 (May 27, 2005); as amended by Notice of Final
   Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 8631 (September 23, 2005); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 3118 (April 24, 2009).
