                                  DC REGULATIONS

SETTLEMENT AFTER TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE (ยง 27-3703)

3703.1. After issuing a notice of termination for convenience, the contracting
   officer shall be responsible for negotiating any settlement with the
   contractor. The contracting officer shall attempt to settle in one agreement
   all rights and liabilities of parties involved in the terminated contract
   except those arising from any portion of the contract still in effect.

   3703.2. Consistent with the notice of termination for convenience, the
   contracting officer shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Direct the action required of the prime contractor;
   
   
   
   (b)	Examine the settlement proposal of the prime contractor and, when
   appropriate, the settlement proposals of subcontractors; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Promptly negotiate settlement with the contractor and enter into a
   settlement agreement.

   3703.3. If all of the elements of the settlement cannot be agreed upon between
   the contractor and the contracting officer, the contracting officer shall
   follow the procedures set forth in ยง3705 for settlement by determination for
   those elements that cannot be settled by agreement.

   3703.4. After a settlement agreement is completed under ยง3703.2(c), the
   contracting officer shall promptly hold a conference with the contractor to
   develop a definite plan for effecting the settlement.

   3703.5. After consulting with the contractor, the contracting officer may
   request any of the principal subcontractors to attend the settlement
   conference, if appropriate.

   3703.6. The termination settlement shall cover the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any setoffs that the District has against the contractor that may be
   applied against the terminated contract; and
   
   
   
   (b)	All settlement proposals of subcontractors, except proposals that are
   specifically excepted from the agreement and reserved for separate settlement.

   3703.7. If any items are excepted from the settlement agreement, the
   contracting officer shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Reserve in the settlement agreement any rights or demands of the parties
   that are excepted from the settlement;
   
   
   
   (b)	Ensure that the wording of the reservation does not create any rights for
   the parties beyond those in existence before execution of the settlement
   agreement;
   
   
   
   (c)	Mark each applicable settlement agreement with a legend indicating that
   the settlement agreement contains a reservation and retain the contract file
   until the reservation is removed;
   
   
   
   (d)	Ensure that sufficient funds are retained to cover complete settlement of
   the reserved items; and
   
   
   
   (e)	At the appropriate time, prepare a separate settlement of reserved items
   and include it in a separate settlement agreement.

   3703.8. Before execution of a settlement agreement, the contracting officer
   shall determine the accuracy of the District property account for the
   terminated contract. If a review discloses property for which the contractor
   cannot account, the contracting officer shall reserve in the settlement
   agreement the rights of the District regarding that property or make an
   appropriate deduction from the amount otherwise due the contractor.

   3703.9. When the contracting officer cannot promptly complete settlement under
   a terminated contract, the contracting officer may enter into a partial
   settlement in the following situations:
   
   
   
   (a)	When the issues on which the agreement has been reached are clearly
   severable from other issues; and
   
   
   
   (b)	When the partial settlement will not prejudice the District&#8217;s or
   contractor&#8217;s interest in disposing of the unsettled portion of the
   settlement proposal.

   3703.10. The contracting officer responsible for negotiating the final
   settlement shall establish a separate case file for each termination. This
   file shall include memoranda and records of all actions relative to the
   settlement.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking publishing at 35 DCR 1693 (February 26, 1988).
