                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE OF TERMINATION (ยง 27-3701)

3701.1. The contracting officer shall terminate a contract for convenience or
   default by giving written notice to the contractor. The notice shall be
   hand-delivered, sent by telegram, or sent by certified mail, return receipt
   requested.

   3701.2. When the termination notice is delivered by hand, the contracting
   officer shall obtain a written acknowledgement of receipt from the contractor.

   3701.3. If the termination notice is sent by telegram, the contracting officer
   shall deliver or send a confirming letter to the contractor by certified mail,
   return receipt requested.

   3701.4. In addition to the requirements set forth in ยง3702.2 (termination for
   convenience) and ยง3713.2 (termination for default), the termination notice
   shall state the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The contract number and date;
   
   
   
   (b)	That the contract is being terminated, either for the convenience of the
   District or for default under the contract clause authorizing the termination;
   
   
   
   (c)	The effective date of termination;
   
   
   
   (d)	If the termination is only partial, the extent of termination;
   
   
   
   (e)	Any special instructions; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The steps the contractor should take to minimize the impact on personnel
   if the termination, together with all other outstanding terminations, will
   result in a significant reduction in the contractor&#8217;s work force.

   3701.5. When the termination notice is delivered or sent to the contractor,
   the contracting officer shall simultaneously deliver or send a copy to the
   using agency or agencies and to any known assignee, guarantor, or surety of
   the contractor.

   3701.6. The contracting officer may amend a termination notice to accomplish
   any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Correct nonsubstantive mistakes in the notice;
   
   
   
   (b)	Add supplemental data or instructions; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Rescind or modify the notice if it is determined that items terminated had
   been shipped or completed before the contractor&#8217;s receipt of the notice.

   3701.7. An amendment to a termination notice shall be in writing and shall be
   delivered or sent to the contractor in the manner set forth in this section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking publishing at 35 DCR 1690 (February 26, 1988).
