                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (§ 27-3700)

3700.1. The contracting officer may terminate a contract for the convenience
   of the District, in whole or in part, if the contracting officer determines
   that the termination is in the best interests of the District.

   3700.2. The contracting officer may terminate a contract for default, in whole
   or in part, if the termination is in the best interests of the District, and
   the contractor does any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Fails to deliver the goods or complete the work or services within the
   time specified in the contract or any modification;
   
   
   
   (b)	Fails to make sufficient progress on contract performance so as to
   endanger performance of the contract within the time specified or in the
   manner specified in the contract;
   
   
   
   (c)	Fails or refuses to go forward with the work in accordance with the
   directions of the contracting officer;
   
   
   
   (d)	Expresses through word or conduct an intention not to complete the work in
   a timely manner; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Fails to perform any of the other provisions of the contract.

   3700.3. The contracting officer may effect a no-cost settlement instead of
   issuing a termination notice when the following circumstances apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The contracting officer knows that the contractor will accept a no-cost
   settlement;
   
   
   
   (b)	District property was not furnished to the contractor; and
   
   
   
   (c)	There are no outstanding payments, debts due to the District, or other
   contractor obligations.

   3700.4. If the same item is under contract with a business that is not
   certified with the District of Columbia Local Business Opportunity Commission
   (“LBOC”) and a business that is certified by the LBOC, and it is necessary
   to terminate for convenience part of the units still to be delivered, the
   contracting officer shall give preference to the continuing performance of the
   certified minority business by terminating all or part of the contract held by
   the non-certified business unless the Director determines that to do so is not
   in the best interests of the District.

   3700.5. Upon written consent of the contractor, the contracting officer may
   reinstate the terminated portion of a contract, in whole or in part, by
   amending the notice of termination if the contracting officer determines that
   the following circumstances apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	There is a definite requirement for the terminated items; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Reinstatement is in the best interests of the District.

   3700.6. When the price of the undelivered balance of a contract is less than
   two thousand dollars ($2,000), the contracting officer shall not terminate the
   contract for convenience, but shall permit it to run to completion.

   3700.7. When a construction contract is terminated, the contracting officer
   shall take action to ensure site cleanup, protection of serviceable materials,
   removal of hazards, and other steps necessary to leave a safe and healthful
   site.

   3700.8. In each solicitation and contract, the contracting officer shall
   include a clause, approved by the Director, giving notice of the
   District&#8217;s right to terminate the contract for convenience or default.
   The contracting officer shall also insert a clause, approved by the Director,
   which gives notice of exceptions to the District&#8217;s right to terminate
   for default when the delay or failure to perform is excusable due to causes
   beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the contractor.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: Unless otherwise noted, the authority for this chapter is the
   District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 1985, D.C. Law 6-85, as
   amended, D.C. Code §1-1181.1 et seq. (1981).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking publishing at 35 DCR 1689 (February 26, 1988).
