                                  DC REGULATIONS

TERMINATION FOR DEFAULT (§ 27-3710)

3710.1. Under a termination for default, the District shall not be liable for
   the contractor&#8217;s costs on undelivered work, and shall be entitled to the
   repayment of advance or progress payments, if any, applicable to that work.

   3710.2. The default clause approved by the Director shall include a statement
   that the contracting officer may require the contractor to transfer title and
   deliver to the District completed goods. However, the contracting officer
   shall not use the default clause as authority to acquire any completed goods
   unless it has been ascertained that the District does not already have title
   under some other provision of the contract.

   3710.3. Subject to the provisions of §§3710.4, 3710.5, and 3710.6, the
   District shall pay to the contractor the contract price for any completed
   goods and the amount agreed upon by the contracting officer and contractor for
   any manufacturing materials acquired by the District under the default clause
   approved by the Director.

   3710.4. Before payment is made for completed or delivered goods, services, or
   materials, the contracting officer shall take one (1) or more of the following
   measures to protect the District from potential liability to laborers and
   material suppliers:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ascertain whether the payment bonds, if any, furnished by the contractor
   are adequate to satisfy all lienors&#8217; claims or whether it is feasible to
   obtain similar bonds to cover outstanding liens;
   
   
   
   (b)	Require the contractor to furnish appropriate statements from laborers and
   material suppliers disclaiming any lien rights they may have to the goods and
   materials;
   
   
   
   (c)	Obtain appropriate agreement among the District, the contractor, and
   lienors ensuring release of the District from any potential liability to the
   contractor or lienors;
   
   
   
   (d)	Withhold from the amount due for services, goods, or materials any amount
   the contracting officer determines necessary to protect the District&#8217;s
   interests, but only if the measures set forth in §§3710.4(a)-(c) cannot be
   accomplished or are inadequate; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Take other appropriate action considering the circumstances and the degree
   of the contractors&#8217;s solvency.

   3710.5. The contractor shall be liable to the District for any excess costs
   incurred in reprocuring goods or materials similar to those to be obtained
   under the contract terminated for default and for any other damages, whether
   or not repurchase is effected.

   3710.6. If a contract is terminated for default or if a course of action
   instead of termination for default is followed under §3714, the contracting
   officer shall promptly ascertain and make demand for any liquidated damages to
   which the District is entitled under the contract. The contract clause for
   liquidated damages shall be approved by the Director and shall specify that
   these damages are in addition to any excess repurchase costs.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking publishing at 35 DCR 1698 (February 26, 1988).
