                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE OF TERMINATION FOR DEFAULT (ยง 27-3713)

3713.1. If, after consideration of all facts and circumstances, and after
   compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the contracting officer
   determines that a termination for default is proper, the contracting officer
   shall issue a notice of termination.

   3713.2. In addition to the requirements of ยง3701, a notice of termination for
   default shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The acts or omissions constituting the default;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement that the contractor&#8217;s right to proceed further under the
   contract, or a specified portion of the contract, is terminated;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement that the goods or services terminated may be purchased against
   the contractor&#8217;s account, and that the contractor will be held liable
   for any excess costs;
   
   
   
   (d)	If the contracting officer has determined that the failure to perform is
   not excusable, a statement that the notice of termination constitutes a
   decision to that effect, and that the contractor has the right to appeal the
   decision under the disputes clause in the contract;
   
   
   
   (e)	That the District reserves all rights and remedies provided by law or
   under the contract, in addition to charging excess costs; and
   
   
   
   (f)	That the notice constitutes a decision that the contractor is in default
   as specified, and that the contractor has the right to appeal the termination
   under the disputes clause in the contract.

   3713.3. The contracting officer shall make the same distribution of the
   termination notice as was made of the contract.

   3713.4. The contracting officer shall furnish a copy to the contractor&#8217;s
   surety, if any, when the notice is furnished to the contractor. The
   contracting officer shall request the surety to advise the contracting officer
   if it desires to arrange for completion of the work.

   3713.5. The contracting officer shall immediately notify the payment office to
   withhold further payments under the terminated contract pending further
   notice.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking publishing at 35 DCR 1702 (February 26, 1988).
