                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXCUSABLE FAILURE TO PERFORM AND OTHER NON-TERMINATION ACTIONS (ยง 27-3714)

3714.1. If the contracting officer determines before issuing the termination
   notice that the failure to perform is excusable in accordance with the
   contract clause required under ยง3700.8, the contract shall not be terminated
   for default. If termination is in the best interests of the District, the
   contracting officer may terminate the contract for the convenience of the
   District.

   3714.2. If the contracting officer has not been able to determine before
   issuance of the notice of termination whether the contactor&#8217;s failure to
   perform is excusable, the contracting officer shall make a written decision on
   that point as soon as practicable after issuance of the notice of termination.

   3714.3. When the contracting officer determines that some action other than a
   termination for default is in the best interests of the District, the
   contracting officer may take any one of the following actions:
   
   
   
   (a)	The contracting officer may permit the contractor, the surety, or the
   guarantor, to continue performance of the contract under a revised delivery
   schedule;
   
   
   
   (b)	The contracting officer may permit the contractor to continue performance
   of the contract by means of a subcontract or other business arrangement with
   an acceptable third party, provided that the rights of the District shall be
   adequately preserved; or
   
   
   
   (c)	If the requirement for the goods and services in the contract no longer
   exists, and the contractor is not liable to the District for damages, the
   contracting officer may execute a no-cost settlement.

   3714.4. The contracting officer may, with the written consent of the
   contractor, reinstate the terminated contract by amending the notice of
   termination, after the contracting officer makes a written determination that
   the goods or services are still required and reinstatement is in the best
   interests of the District.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking publishing at 35 DCR 1703 (February 26, 1988).
