                                  DC REGULATIONS

TRANSITION SERVICES FOR SECONDARY SCHOOL STUDENTS (§ 29-127)

127.1. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall provide transition
   services to students with disabilities, as defined by § 199 of these
   regulations, who are referred to the Rehabilitation Services Administration or
   who apply for transition services. Transition services shall plan for a
   student&#8217;s employment outcome or independent living after the student
   leaves secondary education.

   127.2. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall provide transition
   services two years before the student&#8217;s anticipated exit from secondary
   education. Transition services shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Outreach through technical assistance and general information to secondary
   school staff, students and families on the vocational rehabilitation program
   and independent living program, including information on eligibility
   requirements, the application process, scope of services, and linkages with
   other agencies and organizations to enable the student to move smoothly from
   secondary education to vocational activities leading to an employment outcome,
   or an independent living program leading to self-sufficiency;
   
   
   
   (b)	Consultation and technical assistance to students referred to or
   requesting transition services in development of vocational or independent
   living goals that will be identified in their Individualized Plan for
   Employment (IPE) or Independent Living Plan (ILP), based on the
   student&#8217;s needs, taking into account the student&#8217;s preferences and
   interests; and
   
   
   
   (c)	During the student&#8217;s final academic year of secondary education, the
   Rehabilitation Services Administration shall:
   
   
   
   (1)	Assist the student with completing and submitting an application for
   vocational rehabilitation or independent living services;
   
   
   
   (2)	Determine the student&#8217;s eligibility for services; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Develop and approve an IPE or Independent Living Plan (ILP) for each
   eligible student consistent with §§ 110 and 111, to be implemented upon the
   student&#8217;s exiting the secondary educational institution.

   127.3. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall implement an eligible
   student&#8217;s IPE or ILP after the student exits the secondary educational
   institution.

   127.4. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall enter into a formal
   interagency agreement with the state education agency for collaboration in the
   provision of transition services that includes:
   
   
   
   (a)	Consultation and technical assistance to educational agencies in planning
   for the transition of students with disabilities from school to post school
   activities, including vocational rehabilitation and independent living
   services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Joint transition planning that facilitates the development, completion and
   approval of the student&#8217;s Individualized Education Plan (IEP), IPE, and
   ILP;
   
   
   
   (c)	The roles and responsibilities, including financial responsibilities, of
   each agency; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Procedures for outreach to and identification of students with
   disabilities who are in need of transition services.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 6189 (August 1, 2003); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 6020 (June 22, 2007).
