                                  DC REGULATIONS

PAYMENTS FOR GOODS (§ 29-120)

120.1. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall pay only for goods
   that are:
   
   
   
   (a)	Determined by the Rehabilitation Services Administration to be necessary
   for the client to participate in the assessment or evaluation process;
   
   
   
   (b)	Identified on the client&#8217;s Individualized Plan for Employment (IPE)
   or Independent Living Plan (ILP);
   
   
   
   (c)	Preauthorized and approved by the Rehabilitation Services Administration
   through either a signed purchase order or other authorizing document;
   
   
   
   (d)	Determined satisfactory by the Rehabilitation Services Administration; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Not available through a comparable service or benefit pursuant to § 114.

   120.2. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall pay only the portion
   of the cost of goods identified as the responsibility of the Rehabilitation
   Services Administration on the client&#8217;s IPE in accordance with § 124,
   and shall not pay costs that have been designated as the client&#8217;s
   financial responsibility.

   120.3. Each provider of goods shall comply with the requirements of § 119.3
   during the entire period of providing goods.

   120.4. If a provider supplies goods pursuant to a purchase order or other
   authorizing document, the provider shall submit the invoice for the delivered
   goods in accordance with procedures established by the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration. The amount of the invoice shall not exceed the cost specified
   in the purchase order or authorizing document.

   120.5. A provider may not charge or accept payment from a client of the
   Rehabilitation Services Administration, the client&#8217;s family, or a third
   party for authorized goods unless the amount of the client&#8217;s financial
   responsibility to the provider has been:
   
   
   
   (a)	Preauthorized by the Rehabilitation Services Administration;
   
   
   
   (b)	Agreed to by the client in writing; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Incorporated into the Rehabilitation Services Administration&#8217;s
   authorization for goods from the provider.

   120.6. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall pay for authorized
   goods at a rate equal to or lesser than:
   
   
   
   (a)	The provider&#8217;s customary charge; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The rate established as the result of competitive bidding conducted by the
   Department of Human Ser-vices, Office of Contracts and Procurement as
   reflected in an issued purchase order.

   120.7. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall not purchase land or
   buildings or pay for the cost of construction or additions to a building.

   120.8. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall provide no more than
   one (1) pair of glasses and frames per year unless additional glasses are
   required by a change in prescription or necessitated by unforeseen
   circumstances, and no comparable benefit is available to pay for the glasses.

   120.9. The Rehabilitation Services Administration may purchase assistive
   technology devices and aids for an eligible individual pursuant to an
   assistive technology assessment which establishes a need for the device, if no
   comparable benefit is available to pay for the assistive technology device(s).

   120.10. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall provide no more than
   one of each type of assistive technology device or aid unless a new evaluation
   shows that a replacement or additional device or aid is warranted or
   unforeseen circumstances warrant repair or replacement to enable the
   individual to maintain employment.

   120.11. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall provide computers,
   books, tools, and other training materials that are necessary to complete
   training pursuant to § 113.2, only after an eligible individual provides one
   of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Written verification from the chairperson of the relevant department, or
   director of the training pro-gram, that a specific computer or specific books,
   tools, and other training materials are required for the course of study;
   
   
   
   (b)	The catalog or syllabus for the course which specifies that a specific
   computer or specific books, tools, and training materials are a requirement
   for all students; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Written documentation from a licensed professional that the eligible
   individual requires a specific computer, or specific books, tools, and
   training materials as an accommodation for the client&#8217;s disability and
   functional limitations.

   120.12. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall not pay for upgrades,
   repairs, or maintenance for computer systems or operating programs except as
   provided in § 120.11.

   120.13. When an individual provides documentation that a computer is required
   to complete training pursuant to § 120.11, the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration shall first determine if a comparable computer is available
   through the computer loan program. If no computer is available pursuant to the
   computer loan program, the Rehabilitation Ser-vices Administration shall
   purchase a computer for use by the individual.

   120.14. A client&#8217;s request for a computer, books, tools and training
   equipment made in accordance with §§ 113.2 and 120.11 must be submitted by
   the client as soon as possible, but no later that one week after the first day
   of training, and must include the cost of each item or supply requested.
   Failure to comply with § 120.11 may result in a delay of the receipt of
   supplies.

   120.15. The Rehabilitation Services Administration may establish other
   reasonable purchase requirements from time to time, through public notice.

   120.16. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall pay for all goods
   authorized in accordance with the Procurement Practices Act (D.C. Official
   Code § 2-301 et seq.).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 6189 (August 1, 2003); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 6020 (June 22, 2007).
