                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 29-199)

199.1. For purposes of this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall
   have the meanings ascribed below:
   
   
   
   Act &#8211; the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. §§ 701 et
   seq.).
   
   
   
   Administration or Rehabilitation Services Administration (DDS/RSA) – the
   District of Columbia Department on Disability Services, Rehabilitation
   Services Administration.
   
   
   
   Applicant – an individual who submits an application for vocational
   rehabilitation services in accordance with 34 C.F.R. § 361.41 (b) (2).
   
   
   
   Appropriate modes of communication &#8211; specialized aids and supports that
   enable an individual with a disability to comprehend and respond to
   information that is being communicated. Appropriate modes of communication
   include, but are not limited to, the use of interpreters, open and closed
   captioned videos, specialized telecommunications services and audio
   recordings, Brailed and large print materials, materials in electronic
   formats, augmentative communication devices, graphic presentations, and simple
   language materials.
   
   
   
   Assistive technology device &#8211; any item, piece of equipment, or product
   system, whether acquired commercially off the shelf, modified, or customized,
   that is used to increase, maintain, or improve the functional capabilities of
   an individual with a disability.
   
   
   
   Auxiliary aids and services includes—
   
   
   
   (1) Qualified interpreters, note takers, transcription services, written
   materials, telephone handset amplifiers, assistive listening devices,
   assistive listening systems, telephones compatible with hearing aids, closed
   caption decoders, open and closed captioning, telecommunications devices for
   deaf persons (TDD&#8217;s), videotext displays, or other effective methods of
   making aurally delivered materials available to individuals with hearing
   impairments;
   
   
   
   (2) Qualified readers, taped texts, audio recordings, brailed materials, large
   print materials, or other effective methods of making visually delivered
   materials available to individuals with visual impairments;
   
   
   
   (3) Acquisition or modification of equipment or devices; and
   
   
   
   (4) Other similar services and actions.
   
   
   
   C.F.R. &#8211; the Code of Federal Regulations.
   
   
   
   Client or Consumer – an individual who has submitted an application pursuant
   to 34 C.F.R. § 361.41 (b) (2), and who has satisfied the eligibility
   requirements under 34 C.F.R. § 361.42 (a) (1), (a) (3) or 34 C.F.R. § 361.42
   (b).
   
   
   
   Client Assistance Program or CAP &#8211; the program established pursuant to
   29 USC § 732 for the purpose of advising, informing, assisting and advocating
   for applicants and eligible individuals regarding all services and benefits
   available pursuant to this chapter.
   
   
   
   Comparable services and benefits &#8211; are:
   
   
   
   (a)	Services and benefits that are:
   
   
   
   (1)	Provided or paid for, in whole or in part, by other Federal, State, or
   local public agencies, by health insurance, or by employee benefits;
   
   
   
   (2)	Available to the individual at the time needed to ensure the progress of
   the individual toward achieving the employment outcome in the
   individual&#8217;s individualized plan for employment in accordance with §
   111; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Commensurate to the services that the individual would otherwise receive
   from the Rehabilitation Services Administration.
   
   
   
   (b)	For the purposes of this definition, comparable benefits do not include
   awards and scholarships based on merit.
   
   
   
   Competitive employment &#8211; work that is:
   
   
   
   (a)	In the competitive labor market that is performed on a full-time or
   part-time basis in an integrated setting; and
   
   
   
   (b)	For which an individual is compensated at or above the minimum wage, but
   not less than the customary wage and level of benefits paid by the employer
   for the same or similar work performed by individuals who do not have a
   disability.
   
   
   
   Department of Human Services &#8211; a department within the government of the
   District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Determination &#8211; an official written decision made or an action taken by
   a representative of the District of Columbia, Department of Human Services,
   Rehabilitation Services Administration, affecting eligibility or the provision
   of services.
   
   
   
   Division of Services for the Blind &#8211; a division within the Department on
   Disability Services, Rehabilitation Services Administration, which provides
   vocational rehabilitation and entrepreneurial services to blind and
   sight-impaired individuals.
   
   
   
   Due Process Remedies – the collective name for the rights/procedures
   outlined in Chapter 1 of this Title.
   
   
   
   Eligible individual &#8211; an applicant for vocational rehabilitation
   services who meets the eligibility requirements of § 103.1.
   
   
   
   Employment outcome &#8211; with respect to an individual, entering or
   retaining full-time or, if appropriate, part-time competitive employment, as
   defined above, in the integrated labor market, supported employment, or any
   other type of employment in an integrated setting, including self- employment,
   telecommuting, or business ownership, that is consistent with an
   individual&#8217;s strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities,
   capabilities, interests, and informed choice.
   
   
   
   Extended employment &#8211; work in a non-integrated or sheltered setting for
   a public or private nonprofit agency or organization that provides
   compensation in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C §
   214(c)).
   
   
   
   Extended services &#8211; ongoing support services and other appropriate
   services that are needed to support and maintain an individual with a most
   significant disability in supported employment and that are provided by a
   District of Columbia agency, a private nonprofit organization, employer, or
   any other appropriate resource, from funds other than funds received under 34
   C.F.R. Part 361 and 34 C.F.R. Part 363 after an individual with a most
   significant disability has made the transition from support provided by the
   Client Services Division.
   
   
   
   Extreme medical risk &#8211; a probability of substantially increasing
   functional impairment or death if medical services, including mental health
   services, are not provided expeditiously.
   
   
   
   Fair Labor Standards Act &#8211; the United States Fair Labor Standards Act of
   1938, as amended, and codified at 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq.
   
   
   
   Family member (for purposes of receiving vocational rehabilitation services in
   accordance with subsection 113.2(i)) &#8211; an individual:
   
   
   
   (a)	Who either:
   
   
   
   (1)	Is a relative or guardian of an applicant or eligible individual; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Lives in the same household as an applicant or eligible individual;
   
   
   
   (b)	Who has a substantial interest in the well-being of that individual; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Whose receipt of vocational rehabilitation services is necessary to enable
   the applicant or eligible individual to achieve an employment outcome.
   
   
   
   Good cause &#8211; a substantial reason, a legitimate justification for acting
   or failing to act.
   
   
   
   Impartial hearing officer &#8211; the individual appointed by, the Director
   that is selected to carry out the responsibilities associated with sections
   135 through 169.
   
   
   
   Income Maintenance Administration Programs &#8211; vocational training
   programs that the Department of Human Services, Income Maintenance
   Administration may provide for recipients of such programs as Temporary
   Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) and the Food Stamp Program.
   
   
   
   Independent Living Plan (ILP) &#8211; a plan that describes the established
   goals or objectives, the services to be provided and the anticipated duration
   of the services program necessary to enable an individual with a significant
   disability to become self-sufficient.
   
   
   
   Individual with a disability (except as defined in the subsection that
   immediately follows) &#8211; is individual:
   
   
   
   (a)	Who has a physical or mental impairment;
   
   
   
   (b)	Whose impairment constitutes or results in a substantial impediment to
   employment; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Who can benefit in terms of an employment outcome from the provision of
   vocational rehabilitation services.
   
   
   
   Individual with a disability for purposes of 34 C.F.R §§ 361.5(b)(14),
   361.13(a), 361.13(b)(1), 361.17(a), (b), (c), and (j), 361.18(b), 361.19,
   361.20, 361.23(b)(2), 361.29(a) and (d)(5), and 361.51(b) &#8211; means an
   individual who:
   
   
   
   (a)	Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more
   major life activities;
   
   
   
   (b)	Has a record of a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits
   one or more major life activities; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Is regarded as having an impairment that limits one or more major life
   activities.
   
   
   
   Individual with a most significant disability &#8211; means an individual with
   a significant disability who is provided priority vocational services in those
   states that have implemented order of selection procedures pursuant to 34
   C.F.R. § 361.36.
   
   
   
   Individual with a significant disability &#8211; an individual with a
   disability:
   
   
   
   (a)	Who has a severe physical or mental impairment that seriously limits one
   or more functional capacities (such as mobility, communication, self-care,
   self-direction, interpersonal skills, work tolerance, or work skills) in terms
   of an employment outcome;
   
   
   
   (b)	Whose vocational rehabilitation can be expected to require multiple
   vocational rehabilitation services over an extended period of time; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Who has one or more physical or mental disabilities resulting from
   amputation, arthritis, autism, blindness, burn injury, cancer, cerebral palsy,
   cystic fibrosis, deafness, head injury, heart disease, hemiplegia, hemophilia,
   respiratory or pulmonary dysfunction, mental retardation, mental illness,
   multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, musculo-skeletal disorders,
   neurological disorders (including stroke and epilepsy), spinal cord conditions
   (including paraplegia and quadriplegia), sickle cell anemia, specific learning
   disability, end-stage renal disease, or another disability or combination of
   disabilities determined on the basis of an assessment for determining
   eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs to cause comparable
   substantial functional limitation.
   
   
   
   Individual&#8217;s representative &#8211; any representative chosen in writing
   by an applicant or eligible individual, as appropriate, including a parent,
   guardian, other family member, or advocate, unless a representative has been
   appointed by a court to represent the individual, in which case the
   court-appointed representative is the individual&#8217;s representative.
   
   
   
   Individualized Plan for Employment (IPE) &#8211; a plan prepared pursuant to
   sections 110 and 111 of this chapter.
   
   
   
   Informal administrative review meeting is an optional first step informal
   nonbinding, non-adversarial process that the Department on Disability
   Services/Rehabilitation Services Administration offers to individuals to
   resolve disputes about any determination concerning the furnishing or denial
   of vocational rehabilitation services.  The applicant/client meets with the
   Chief of VRSD or Chief of DSB to attempt resolution through interviews,
   negotiation, and document review.
   
   
   
   Integrated setting -
   
   
   
   (a)	With respect to the provision of services, means a setting typically found
   in the community in which applicants or eligible individuals interact with
   non-disabled individuals other than non-disabled individuals who are providing
   services to those applicants or eligible individuals;
   
   
   
   (b)	With respect to an employment outcome, means a setting typically found in
   the community in which applicants or eligible individuals interact with
   non-disabled individuals, other than non-disabled individuals who are
   providing services to those applicants or eligible individuals, to the same
   extent that non-disabled individuals in comparable positions interact with
   other persons.
   
   
   
   Impartial Hearing Officer- the individual appointed by the Director that is
   selected to carry out the responsibilities associated with sections 135
   through 169.
   
   
   
   Maintenance &#8211; monetary support provided to an individual for expenses
   that are in excess of the normal expenses of the individual and that are
   necessitated by the individual&#8217;s participation in an assessment for
   determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs or the
   individual&#8217;s receipt of vocational rehabilitation services under an
   individualized plan for employment.
   
   
   
   Mediation &#8211; the act or process of using an independent third party to
   act as a mediator, intermediary, or conciliator to assist persons or parties
   in settling differences or disputes prior to pursuing formal administrative or
   other legal remedies.
   
   
   
   Natural Supports &#8211; supports that are typically available to all workers
   in the workplace. Workplace supports may include, but are not limited to, such
   things as a coworker mentor who assists an employee in learning the job, a
   supervisor who monitors work performance, a co-worker who assists the client
   in developing social relationships, orientation training or other company
   sponsored training events, an employee assistance program and other supports
   that may be available.
   
   
   
   One-Stop Center or One-Stop service delivery system &#8211; a service delivery
   system that is structured pursuant to Title I of the Workforce Investment Act
   of 1998, in accordance with 20 C.F.R. Part 662.
   
   
   
   Personal assistance services &#8211; a range of services provided by one (1)
   or more persons designed to assist an individual with a disability to perform
   daily living activities on or off the job that the individual would typically
   perform without assistance if the individual did not have a disability. The
   services shall be designed to increase the individual&#8217;s control in life
   and ability to perform everyday activities on or off the job. The services
   shall be necessary to the achievement of an employment outcome and may be
   provided only while the individual is receiving other vocational
   rehabilitation services. The services may include training in managing,
   supervising, and directing personal assistance services.
   
   
   
   Physical or mental impairment -
   
   
   
   (a)	Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or
   anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems:
   neurological, musculo skeletal, special sense organs, respiratory (including
   speech organs), cardiovascular, reproductive, digestive, genitourinary, hemic
   and lymphatic, skin, and endocrine; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Any mental or psychological disorder such as mental retardation, organic
   brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning
   disabilities.
   
   
   
   Physical or mental restoration services &#8211; corrective surgery or
   therapeutic treatment that is likely, within a reasonable period of time, to
   correct or modify substantially a stable or slowly progressive physical or
   mental impairment that constitutes a substantial impediment to employment;
   diagnosis of and treatment for mental or emotional disorders by qualified
   personnel in accordance with state licensure laws; dentistry, nursing
   services, necessary hospitalization (either inpatient or outpatient care) in
   connection with surgery or treatment and clinic services; drugs and supplies;
   prosthetic and orthotic devices; eyeglasses and visual services, including
   visual training, and the examination and services necessary for the
   prescription and provision of eyeglasses, contact lenses, microscopic lenses,
   telescopic lenses, and other special visual aids prescribed by personnel that
   are qualified in accordance with state licensure laws; podiatry; physical,
   occupation and speech and hearing therapy; mental health services; treatment
   of either acute or chronic medical complications and emergencies that are
   associated with or arise out of the provision of physical and mental
   restoration services, or that are inherent in the condition under treatment;
   special services for the treatment of individuals with end-stage renal
   disease, including transplantation , dialysis, artificial kidneys, and
   supplies; and other medical or medically related rehabilitation services.
   
   
   
   Post-employment services &#8211; one (1) or more of the services identified in
   section 113 of this chapter that are provided subsequent to the achievement of
   an employment outcome and that are necessary for an individual to maintain,
   regain, or advance in employment, consistent with the individual&#8217;s
   strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities,
   interests, and informed choice.
   
   
   
   Note to Post-employment services &#8211; Post-employment services are intended
   to ensure that the employment outcome remains consistent with the
   individual&#8217;s strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities,
   capabilities, interests, and informed choice. These services are available to
   meet rehabilitation needs that do not require a complex and comprehensive
   provision of services and, thus, should be limited in scope and duration. If
   more comprehensive services are required, then a new rehabilitation effort
   should be considered. Post-employment services are to be provided under an
   amended individualized plan for employment; thus, a re-determination of
   eligibility is not required. The provision of post-employment services is
   subject to the same requirements as the provision of any other vocational
   rehabilitation service. Post-employment services are available to assist an
   individual to maintain employment, e.g., the individual&#8217;s employment is
   jeopardized because of conflicts with supervisors or coworkers, and the
   individual needs mental health services and counseling to maintain the
   employment; to regain employment, e.g., the individual&#8217;s job is
   eliminated through reorganization and new placement services are needed; and
   to advance in employment, e.g., the employment is no longer consistent with
   the individual&#8217;s strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities,
   capabilities, interests, and informed choice.
   
   
   
   Post-secondary education &#8211; community/junior colleges,
   proprietary/private career schools, technical institutes, hospital schools of
   nursing, colleges, universities, and other post-secondary training.
   
   
   
   Psycho-educational Assessment &#8211; an evaluation of an individual&#8217;s
   intellectual and educational functioning, limitations, achievement, and
   potential, and may also include identification of a secondary emotional
   disorder.
   
   
   
   Psycho-educational Assessment &#8211; an evaluation of an individual’s
   intellectual and educational functioning limitations, achievement, and
   potential, and may also include identification of a secondary emotional
   disorder.
   
   
   
   Rehabilitation Services Administration &#8211; an administration within the
   Department of Human Services, District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Rehabilitation technology &#8211; the systematic application of technologies,
   engineering methodologies, or scientific principles to meet the needs of, and
   address the barriers confronted by, individuals with disabilities in areas
   that include education, rehabilitation, employment, transportation,
   independent living, and recreation. The term includes rehabilitation
   engineering, assistive technology devices, and assistive technology services.
   
   
   
   Sheltered setting &#8211; a non-integrated work environment designed for
   applicants and eligible individuals that are closely supervised by other
   individuals who provide the necessary vocational services and supports.
   
   
   
   State &#8211; any of the 50 United States of America, the District of
   Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam,
   American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
   
   
   
   State Director &#8211; the Administrator of the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration.
   
   
   
   Statewide workforce investment system &#8211; a system described in section
   111(d)(2) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. § 2821(d)(2)).
   
   
   
   State plan &#8211; the State plan submitted by the District of Columbia for
   vocational rehabilitation services submitted pursuant to 34 C.F.R. § 361.10.
   
   
   
   State Rehabilitation Council &#8211; the council established within the
   District of Columbia pursuant to 34 C.F.R. §§ 361.16 and 17 for the purpose
   of assisting the Client Services Division with the development,
   implementation, and revision of policies and procedures of general
   applicability pertaining to the provision of vocational rehabilitation
   services.
   
   
   
   Students with disabilities &#8211; a student:
   
   
   
   (a)	Who has a physical or mental impairment;
   
   
   
   (b)	Whose impairment constitutes or results in a substantial impediment to
   employment;
   
   
   
   (c)	Who can benefit in terms of an employment outcome from the provision of
   vocational rehabilitation services or who are candidates for independent
   living services to enable them to become self-sufficient; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Who is in the last two years of secondary education in a D.C. Public
   School, D.C. Public Charter School, or Board of Education Public Charter
   School or who are D.C. Public School students attending a private secondary
   school.
   
   
   
   Substantial impediment to employment &#8211; that a physical or mental
   impairment (in light of attendant medical, psychological, vocational,
   educational, communication, and other related factors) hinders an individual
   from preparing for, entering into, engaging in, or retaining employment
   consistent with the individual&#8217;s abilities and capabilities.
   
   
   
   Supported employment -
   
   
   
   (a)	Competitive employment in an integrated setting, or employment in
   integrated work settings in which individuals are working toward competitive
   employment, consistent with the strengths, resources, priorities, concerns,
   abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice of the individuals
   with ongoing support services for individuals with the most significant
   disabilities:
   
   
   
   (1)	For whom competitive employment has not traditionally occurred or for whom
   competitive employment has been interrupted or intermittent as a result of a
   significant disability; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Who, because of the nature and severity of their disabilities, need
   intensive supported employment services and extended services after transition
   to perform this work; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Transitional employment for individuals with the most significant
   disabilities due to mental illness.
   
   
   
   Supported employment services &#8211; ongoing support services and other
   appropriate services that are needed to support and maintain an individual
   with a most significant disability in supported employment that are:
   
   
   
   (a)	For a period of time not to exceed eighteen (18) months, unless under
   special circumstances the eligible individual and the rehabilitation counselor
   or coordinator jointly agree to extend the time to achieve the employment
   outcome identified in the individualized plan for employment; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Following transition, as post-employment services that are unavailable
   from an extended services provider and that are necessary to maintain or
   regain the job placement or advance in employment.
   
   
   
   Transition services &#8211; a coordinated set of activities for a student
   designed within an outcome- oriented process that promotes movement from
   school to post-school activities, including postsecondary education,
   vocational training, integrated employment (including supported employment),
   continuing and adult education, adult services, independent living, or
   community participation. The coordinated set of activities shall be based upon
   the individual student&#8217;s needs, taking into account the student&#8217;s
   preferences and interests, and shall include instruction, community
   experiences, the development of employment and other post-school adult living
   objectives, and, if appropriate, acquisition of daily living skills and
   functional vocational evaluation. Transition services shall promote or
   facilitate the achievement of the employment outcome identified in the
   student&#8217;s individualized plan for employment.
   
   
   
   Transitional employment (as used in the definition of &#8220;supported
   employment&#8221;) &#8211; a series of temporary job placements in competitive
   work in integrated settings with ongoing support services for individuals with
   the most significant disabilities due to mental illness. In transitional
   employment, the provision of ongoing support services shall include continuing
   sequential job placements until job permanency is achieved.
   
   
   
   Transportation &#8211; travel and related expenses that are necessary to
   enable an applicant or eligible individual to participate in a vocational
   rehabilitation service, including expenses for training in the use of public
   transportation, vehicles and systems.
   
   
   
   U.S.C. -United States Code.
   
   
   
   Vocational Rehabilitation services &#8211; those services listed within
   section 113.2 of this chapter that are necessary to determine an
   applicant&#8217;s eligibility or that are necessary for an eligible individual
   to prepare for, secure, retain, or regain employment consistent with the
   individual&#8217;s unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns,
   abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice.
   
   
   
   Vocational Rehabilitation Services Division – a division within the
   Department on Disability Services, Rehabilitation Services Administration,
   which includes vocational rehabilitation services, supported employment, and
   independent living.
   
   
   
   Washington D.C. Metropolitan Area – for purposes of receiving services under
   this Chapter, the Washington D.C. Metropolitan Area is defined as areas in the
   District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia accessible by public
   transportation.  By definition this includes the principal cities of:
   Washington, DC; Arlington, VA; Alexandria, VA; Reston, VA; Bethesda, MD;
   Frederick, MD; Rockville, MD; Gaithersburg, MD; and Largo, MD.
   
   
   
   Workforce Investment Act &#8211; Title I of the Workforce Investment Act of
   1998, which is codified generally at 29 U.S.C. §§ 2801 et seq.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 6189 (August 1, 2003); as Final
   Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 6020(June 22, 2007); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 4612, 4619 (May 28, 2010).
