                                  DC REGULATIONS

REASONS FOR CLOSURE OF THE RECORD OF SERVICES (§ 29-117)

117.1. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall close a client&#8217;s
   record of services after the client:
   
   
   
   (a)	Maintains a successful employment outcome for a period of ninety (90) days
   or more in accordance with § 116.1;
   
   
   
   (b)	Indicates in writing that he or she no longer wishes to participate in the
   rehabilitation program;
   
   
   
   (c)	Fails to comply with the vocational rehabilitation process, required
   assessments or with provisions agreed to in the Individualized Plan for
   Employment (IPE) or Independent Living Plan (ILP) and is not working with the
   Rehabilitation Services Administration to remedy any problems or develop a new
   IPE or ILP;
   
   
   
   (d)	Fails to respond to a notice of the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration&#8217;s intent to close the client&#8217;s case;
   
   
   
   (e)	Ceases to meet the eligibility criteria for participation in the
   rehabilitation program in accordance with § 103;
   
   
   
   (f)	Is determined to be incapable of achieving an employment outcome as
   defined in § 199, because of the severity of the individual&#8217;s
   disability in accordance with § 103.13;
   
   
   
   (g)	Ceases to be present in the District of Columbia or cannot be located or
   contacted;
   
   
   
   (h)	Is determined to have an open vocational rehabilitation case in another
   state or United States territory;
   
   
   
   (i)	Is institutionalized for ninety days or more or is unavailable for
   services;
   
   
   
   (j)	Is determined not to have an impediment to employment or not to have a
   need for independent living;
   
   
   
   (k)	Is unable to accept or maintain employment because suitable transportation
   was either not feasible or not available;
   
   
   
   (l)	Is determined not to need vocational rehabilitation services to prepare
   for, enter into, engage in, or retain gainful employment consistent with their
   strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capability-ties and
   informed choice in accordance with section § 103;
   
   
   
   (m)	Is unable to access a source of extended services;
   
   
   
   (n)	Is placed in extended employment as defined in § 199;
   
   
   
   (o)	Transfers to another Agency that can provide needed services more
   effectively;
   
   
   
   (p)	Is determined to have no disabling condition; or
   
   
   
   (q)	Dies.

   117.2. Before closing an individual&#8217;s record of service based on a
   determination that the individual is incapable of achieving an employment
   outcome due to the severity of the disability, the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration shall give the individual an opportunity to participate in a
   trial work experience with appropriate supports, or if a trial work experience
   is not available, the Rehabilitation Services Administration shall perform an
   extended evaluation to deter-mine if the individual is capable of benefiting
   from vocational rehabilitation services to achieve an employment out-come, in
   accordance with § 103.14.

   117.3. Before closing an individual&#8217;s record of service, the
   Rehabilitation Services Administration shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Give the eligible individual thirty (30) days written notice of the
   proposed closure that includes a re-quest that the individual verify receipt
   of the notice;
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide an opportunity for consultation with the individual or, as
   appropriate, the individual and the individual&#8217;s representative; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Record in the client&#8217;s record of services the responses or views of
   the eligible individual and, as appropriate, the individual&#8217;s
   representative, or the client&#8217;s failure to respond to the thirty (30)
   days notice of closure and opportunity for consultation.

   117.4. When closing a record of services, the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration shall provide the applicant or eligible individual or, as
   appropriate, the individual and the individual&#8217;s representative an
   advance written notice that includes the following and requests that the
   individual verify receipt of the notice:
   
   
   
   (a)	The reasons for the decision to close the record;
   
   
   
   (b)	The individual&#8217;s appeal rights and the means by which the individual
   may express and seek remedy for any concerns regarding the record closure,
   including the opportunity for an informal administrative review, mediation or
   an administrative hearing; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The Client Assistance Program&#8217;s role in client representation.

   117.5. If the Rehabilitation Services Administration closes a record of
   services based on a determination that an individual is ineligible for
   services, the Rehabilitation Services Administration shall refer the
   individual to other agencies and programs, including, when appropriate, the
   independent living services program, pursuant to § 104.

   117.6. If the Rehabilitation Services Administration closes a record of
   services based on a determination that the individual is incapable of
   achieving an employment outcome because of the severity of the
   individual&#8217;s disability, the Rehabilitation Services Administration
   shall review the decision within twelve (12) months, after giving the
   individual, or as appropriate, the individual&#8217;s representative written
   notice of and the opportunity to participate in the review, unless one of the
   following applies:
   
   
   
   (a)	The individual refuses the review;
   
   
   
   (b)	The individual is no longer present in the District of Columbia or cannot
   be located or contacted; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The individual has a medical condition which is rapidly progressive or
   terminal.

   117.7. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall not close an
   applicant&#8217;s record before completing the eligibility determination
   process, unless:
   
   
   
   (a)	The applicant declines to participate in, or is unavailable to complete
   the eligibility assessment proc-less pursuant to § 109;
   
   
   
   (b)	The applicant fails to complete the assessment process for determining
   eligibility and priority for ser-vices, and existing information is
   insufficient to facilitate an eligibility determination; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The applicant notifies the Rehabilitation Services Administration that he
   or she is no longer present in the District of Columbia or has moved to
   another jurisdiction.

   117.8. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall consider an individual
   rehabilitated when either:
   
   
   
   (a)	The individual has met all of the goals stated in the ILP; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The individual achieved the employment outcome that is described in the
   IPE; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The individual maintained the employment outcome for at least ninety (90)
   days, and agreed with the rehabilitation counselor at the end of that ninety
   (90) days that:
   
   
   
   (1)	The individual&#8217;s employment was satisfactory;
   
   
   
   (2)	The individual was performing satisfactorily on the job;
   
   
   
   (3)	The individual planned to continue the employment; and
   
   
   
   (4)	The individual has been informed of the availability of post employment
   services.

   117.9. After the Rehabilitation Services Administration determines that an
   individual has been rehabilitated, the Rehabilitation Services Administration
   shall close the individual&#8217;s record of services.

   117.10. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall provide
   post-employment services as defined in § 199, after the Rehabilitation
   Services Administration has closed the record of services, if they are
   necessary to assist the individual in maintaining, regaining, or advancing in
   employment.

   117.11. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall review and reevaluate
   annually for a minimum of two (2) years and subsequently at the request of the
   individual, or, if appropriate, the individual&#8217;s representative, the
   status of each individual placed in extended employment in a community
   rehabilitation program or in supported employment who is not earning the
   minimum wage to determine the interests, priorities and needs of the
   individual with respect to competitive employment or training for competitive
   employment.

   117.12. If the Rehabilitation Services Administration conducts a review
   pursuant to § 117.11, the individual or, if appropriate, the
   individual&#8217;s representative, shall provide input into the review and
   sign an acknowledgment that the review and reevaluation have taken place.

   117.13. Following a review and revaluation under § 117.11, and a
   determination that the individual can achieve an employment outcome, the
   individual&#8217;s record of services shall be reopened, and the IPE amended
   to reflect the individual&#8217;s current rehabilitation program.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 6189 (August 1, 2003); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 6020 (June 22, 2007); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 4612 (May 28, 2010).
