                                  DC REGULATIONS

ASSESSMENT FOR DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY (ยง 29-103)

103.1. In order to determine whether an individual is eligible for vocational
   rehabilitation services, the Rehabilitation Services Administration shall
   conduct an assessment for determining eligibility in the most integrated
   setting possible, consistent with the individual&#8217;s needs and informed
   choice, and in accordance with this section.

   103.2. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall base an
   applicant&#8217;s eligibility for vocational rehabilitation services only on
   the following basic requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	A determination by qualified personnel that the applicant has a physical
   or mental impairment;
   
   
   
   (b)	A determination by qualified personnel that the applicant&#8217;s physical
   or mental impairment constitutes or results in a substantial impediment to
   employment for the applicant;
   
   
   
   (c)	A determination by a qualified vocational rehabilitation counselor
   employed by the Rehabilitation Services Administration that the applicant
   requires vocational rehabilitation services to prepare for, secure, retain, or
   regain employment consistent with the applicant&#8217;s unique strengths,
   resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and
   informed choice; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A presumption, in accordance with subsection 103.3 of this section, that
   the applicant can benefit in terms of an employment outcome from the provision
   of vocational rehabilitation services.

   103.3. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall presume that an
   applicant who meets the eligibility requirements in subsections 103.2(a) and
   (b) of this section can benefit in terms of an employment outcome unless the
   Rehabilitation Services Administration demonstrates, based on clear and
   convincing evidence, that the applicant is incapable of benefiting in terms of
   an employment outcome from vocational rehabilitation services due to the
   severity of the applicant&#8217;s disability.

   103.4. The Rehabilitation Services Administration may presume an applicant
   eligible for services based on the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any applicant who has been determined eligible for Social Security
   benefits under Title II or Title XVI of the Social Security Act shall be:
   
   
   
   (1)	Presumed eligible for vocational rehabilitation services pursuant to
   subsections 103.2 and 103.3 of this chapter; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Considered an individual with a significant disability as defined in
   section 199, and
   
   
   
   (b)	If an applicant for vocational rehabilitation services asserts that he or
   she is eligible for Social Security benefits under Title II or Title XVI of
   the Social Security Act (and, therefore, is presumed eligible for vocational
   rehabilitation services under subsection 103.4(a) of this section), but is
   unable to provide appropriate evidence, such as an award letter, to support
   that assertion, the Rehabilitation Services Administration shall verify the
   applicant&#8217;s eligibility under Title II or Title XVI of the Social
   Security Act by contacting the Social Security Administration. This
   verification shall be made within a reasonable period of time that enables the
   Rehabilitation Services Administration to determine the applicant&#8217;s
   eligibility for vocational rehabilitation services within sixty (60) days of
   the individual submitting an application for services in accordance with
   subsection 102.1.

   103.5. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall ensure that an
   eligible individual, including an individual whose eligibility for vocational
   rehabilitation services is based on the individual being eligible for Social
   Security benefits under Title II or Title XVI of the Social Security Act,
   intends to achieve an employment outcome that is consistent with the
   applicant&#8217;s unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns,
   abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice, by:
   
   
   
   (a)	Informing individuals, through its application process for vocational
   rehabilitation services, that individuals who receive services under the
   program must intend to achieve an employment outcome, and
   
   
   
   (b)	Considering that the applicant&#8217;s completion of the application
   process for vocational rehabilitation services is sufficient evidence of the
   individual&#8217;s intent to achieve an employment outcome, and that no
   additional demonstration on the part of the applicant is required for purposes
   of satisfying subsection 103.5(a) of this section.

   103.6. Nothing in this section, including subsection 103.4, shall be construed
   to create an entitlement to any vocational rehabilitation service.

   103.7. The Rehabilitation Services Administration may initiate the provision
   of vocational rehabilitation services for an applicant on the basis of an
   interim determination of eligibility prior to the sixty (60) day period
   described in subsection 102.1.

   103.8. When making an interim determination of eligibility, the Rehabilitation
   Services Administration shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Obtain a written approval from the Administrator of the Rehabilitation
   Services Administration or his or her designee;
   
   
   
   (b)	Document in the individual&#8217;s records the criteria and conditions for
   making the determination; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Document in the individual&#8217;s records the scope of services that may
   be provided pending the final determination of eligibility.

   103.9. When providing services based on an interim determination of
   eligibility, the Rehabilitation Services Administration shall make a final
   determination of eligibility within sixty (60) days of the individual
   submitting an application for services in accordance with subsection 102.1.

   103.10. When determining eligibility under this section, the Client Services
   Division, in accordance with the D.C. Human Rights Act of 1977, as amended,
   D.C. Official Code Sections 2-1401.01 et seq., (Act), shall not discriminate
   on the basis of actual or perceived: race, color, religion, national origin,
   sex, age, marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation, familial
   status, family responsibilities, matriculation, political affiliation,
   disability, source of income, or place of residence or business. Sexual
   harassment is a form of sex discrimination, which is prohibited by the Act. In
   addition, harassment based on any of the above-protected categories is
   prohibited by the Act. Discrimination in violation of the Act shall not be
   tolerated. Violators shall be subject to disciplinary action.

   103.11. Except as provided in subsection 103.12 of this section, the
   Rehabilitiation Services Administration shall base its determination of each
   of the basic eligibility requirements in subsection 103.2 of this section on:
   
   
   
   (a)	A review and assessment of existing data, including counselor
   observations, education records, information provided by the individual or the
   individual&#8217;s family, particularly information used by education
   officials, and determinations made by officials of other agencies; and
   
   
   
   (b)	To the extent existing data do not describe the current functioning of the
   individual or are unavailable, insufficient, or inappropriate to make an
   eligibility determination, an assessment of additional data resulting from the
   provision of vocational rehabilitation services, including trial work
   experiences, assistive technology devices and services, personal assistance
   services, and any other support services that are necessary to determine
   whether an individual is eligible.

   103.12. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall base its presumption
   under subsection 103.4 of this section, that an applicant who has been
   determined eligible for Social Security benefits under Title II or Title XVI
   of the Social Security Act satisfies each of the basic eligibility
   requirements in subsection 103.2 of this section, on determinations made by
   the Social Security Administration.

   103.13. Prior to any determination that an individual with a disability is
   incapable of benefiting from vocational rehabilitation services in terms of an
   employment outcome because of the severity of that individual&#8217;s
   disability, the Rehabilitation Services Administration shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Conduct an exploration of the individual&#8217;s abilities, capabilities,
   and capacity to perform in realistic work situations to determine whether or
   not there is clear and convincing evidence to support such a determination;
   
   
   
   (b)	Develop a written plan to assess periodically the individual&#8217;s
   abilities, capabilities, and capacity to perform in work situations through
   the use of trial work experiences, which shall:
   
   
   
   (1)	Be provided in the most integrated setting possible, consistent with the
   informed choice and rehabilitation needs of the individual;
   
   
   
   (2)	Include supported employment, on-the-job training and other experiences
   using realistic work settings;
   
   
   
   (3)	Be of sufficient variety and over a sufficient period of time for the
   Rehabilitation Services Administration to determine that:
   
   
   
   (A)	There is sufficient evidence to conclude that the individual can benefit
   from the provision of vocational rehabilitation services in terms of an
   employment outcome; or
   
   
   
   (B)	There is clear and convincing evidence that the individual is incapable of
   benefiting from vocational rehabilitation services in terms of an employment
   outcome due to the severity of the individual&#8217;s disability; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Provide appropriate supports, including assistive technology devices and
   services and personal assistance services, to accommodate the rehabilitation
   needs of the individual during the trial work experiences.

   103.14. If an individual with a significant disability cannot take advantage
   of trial work experiences or if options for trial work experiences have been
   exhausted before the Rehabilitation Services Administration is able to make
   the determinations described in subsection 103.13(b)(3) of this section, the
   Rehabilitation Services Administration shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Conduct an extended evaluation to make these determinations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide vocational rehabilitation services in the most integrated setting
   possible, consistent with the informed choice and rehabilitation needs of the
   individual;
   
   
   
   (c)	Develop a written plan for providing services necessary to make a
   determination under subsection 103.13(b)(3) of this section; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Provide only those services that are necessary to make the determinations
   described in subsection 103.13(b)(3) of this section and terminate extended
   evaluation services when the Rehabilitation Services Administration is able to
   make the determinations.

   103.15. To provide vocational rehabilitation services during the extended
   evaluation period, the Rehabilitation Services Administration shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Obtain the written approval of the Administrator of the Rehabilitation
   Services Administration or his or her designee;
   
   
   
   (b)	Develop a written extended evaluation plan for each individual;
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide vocational rehabilitation services for not longer than (6) months,
   unless approved by the Rehabilitation Services Administration; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Ensure that each extended evaluation plan is dated and signed by the
   vocational rehabilitation counselor and the individual.

   103.16. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall assess an
   individual&#8217;s progress during an extended evaluation as frequently as
   necessary but at least once every ninety (90) days.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 27 DCR 4611 (October 17, 1980); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 6189 (August 1, 2003).
