                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROCESSING REFERRALS AND APPLICATIONS (ยง 29-101)

101.1. An individual may apply for vocational rehabilitation services by
   contacting the Rehabilitation Services Administration directly or upon
   referral by an individual, organization, public or private agency and other
   sources.

   101.2. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall provide technical
   assistance regarding transitional activities that are available to students
   with disabilities upon receipt of a referral from the appropriate educational
   institutional authority.

   101.3. The individual or referral source shall, to the extent possible, make
   available to the Rehabilitation Services Administration medical, social and
   vocational information to assist in the determination of eligibility for
   vocational rehabilitation services.

   101.4. The Rehabilitation Services Administration may schedule an orientation
   meeting for an individual upon initial contact or referral to explain the
   vocational rehabilitation process, the individual&#8217;s rights, including
   the right to an appeal hearing, the right to pursue mediation, and the
   availability of the resources within the Client Assistance Program.

   101.5. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall schedule an interview
   for an individual with a vocational rehabilitation counselor upon completion
   of the orientation meeting to assist the individual to apply for vocational
   and other rehabilitation services.

   101.6. The orientation meeting may be waived by the Chief, Client Services
   Division or his or her designee. If the orientation meeting is waived, the
   Client Services Division shall schedule an interview with a vocational
   rehabilitation counselor to assist the individual to apply for vocational
   rehabilitation services.

   101.7. An individual shall be considered to have submitted an application for
   services when the individual or the individual&#8217;s representative, as
   appropriate:
   
   
   
   (a)	Applies for services by:
   
   
   
   (1)	Completing and signing an application form;
   
   
   
   (2)	Completing a common intake application form in a One-Stop center
   requesting vocational rehabilitation services; or
   
   
   
   (3)	Otherwise requesting services from the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Has provided to the Rehabilitation Services Administration the information
   necessary to initiate an assessment to determine eligibility for services; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Is available to complete the assessment process.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 27 DCR 4611 (October 17, 1980); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 6189 (August 1, 2003).
