                                  DC REGULATIONS

THE ENTREPRENEURIAL PROGRAM (§ 29-123)

123.1. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall provide an
   entrepreneurial program that assists a client in starting his or her own
   business in the District of Columbia.

   123.2. When an eligible individual elects a self-employment outcome, the
   vocational rehabilitation counselor shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Explore and discuss with the individual the nature of the desired
   business, the feasibility of the business, and the individual&#8217;s
   preparation for operating the business;
   
   
   
   (b)	Prepare a written referral to the entrepreneurial program for the
   individual who wishes to pursue a self-employment goal;
   
   
   
   (c)	Schedule an interview for the individual and the counselor to consult with
   the entrepreneurial pro-gram;
   
   
   
   (d)	Inform the individual about:
   
   
   
   (1)	How the entrepreneurial program works;
   
   
   
   (2)	Required training and training sources for would-be entrepreneurs;
   
   
   
   (3)	The type of business funding that is available;
   
   
   
   (4)	The type of funding the would-be entrepreneur must obtain to start the
   business enterprise; and
   
   
   
   (5)	The support services that are available to assist the entrepreneur in
   determining the feasibility of the business, preparing for the business,
   preparing the business plan, and seeking funding for the business;
   
   
   
   (e)	Determine, along with the individual, any supportive services the
   individual may require to participate in the entrepreneurial training, prepare
   the business plan, and prepare for operation of the business; and
   
   
   
   (f)	After receipt of the Entrepreneurial Program&#8217;s report and
   recommendation for entrepreneurial ser-vices, develop an Individualized Plan
   for Employment (IPE) that addresses the individual&#8217;s entrepreneurial
   goal, training needs and supportive services.

   123.3. Upon receipt of a referral for entrepreneurial services, the
   Entrepreneurial Program shall consult with the individual and the counselor
   to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Assess the individual&#8217;s:
   
   
   
   (1)	Entrepreneurial interest;
   
   
   
   (2)	Past training and related experiences;
   
   
   
   (3)	Practical skills for operating a business; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Command of the skills necessary to operate a business or be self-employed
   in accordance with the entrepreneurial goal;
   
   
   
   (b)	Determine training required to prepare the individual to open and operate
   the determined business;
   
   
   
   (c)	Assess how the individual&#8217;s disability may affect his or her ability
   to operate the business; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Determine supports or services the individual may require to operate the
   business.

   123.4. The Entrepreneurial Program shall send a report and recommendation for
   services to the individual&#8217;s counselor for IPE development to provide
   for the training and support services the individual requires to learn how to
   operate a business, develop a business plan and open and operate the business,
   after completion of an assessment of the individual&#8217;s entrepreneurial
   skills and needs.

   123.5. The Rehabilitation Services Administration may purchase goods and
   services for a business enterprise, including the occupational licenses,
   tools, equipment, initial stocks, and supplies necessary to open the business,
   in accordance with §§ 119, and 120, only after the individual:
   
   
   
   (a)	Demonstrates that he or she possesses the basic knowledge and skills
   required to manage a business through either:
   
   
   
   (1)	Successful completion of training as required in the individual&#8217;s
   IPE;
   
   
   
   (2)	Successful completion of related courses; or
   
   
   
   (3)	Past work experience or entrepreneurial experience;
   
   
   
   (b)	Submits a business plan completed in accordance with § 123.8, and
   approved by the Chief of the Entrepreneurial Program;
   
   
   
   (c)	Submits a request for funding; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Provides documentation of any additional funding secured for the business.

   123.6. In accordance with § 123.5 (a)(2), an individual may demonstrate
   knowledge and skills required to manage a business by providing documentation
   of completion of the following or comparable courses with a cumulative grade
   point average of &#8220;C&#8221; or better at an accredited college or
   university as a regular or non-degree student:
   
   
   
   (a)	Entrepreneurship/self-employment;
   
   
   
   (b)	Principles of Accounting;
   
   
   
   (c)	Introduction to Business;
   
   
   
   (d)	Principles of Finance; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Marketing.

   123.7. In accordance with § 123.5(a)(3), an individual may demonstrate
   knowledge and skills required to manage a business through past work or
   entrepreneurial experience by providing the following documentation:
   
   
   
   (a)	A detailed description of the work or entrepreneurial experience that he
   or she believes demonstrates the knowledge and skills required to operate a
   business;
   
   
   
   (b)	The nature of the business;
   
   
   
   (c)	Clientele served;
   
   
   
   (d)	Numbers of clients/customers;
   
   
   
   (e)	The location of the business;
   
   
   
   (f)	The number of years he or she operated the business; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The reason why the business ceased to operate or why the individual ceased
   to function with the business.

   123.8. In accordance with § 123.5(b), an individual must provide a business
   plan that:
   
   
   
   (a)	Describes the nature of the business and the income source;
   
   
   
   (b)	Identifies funding sources other than the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration and projects income streams that are sufficient to maintain the
   business;
   
   
   
   (c)	Provides a Five Year Plan for the business that addresses:
   
   
   
   (1)	Five years of projected sales;
   
   
   
   (2)	The targeted clientele;
   
   
   
   (3)	The full range of services to be offered; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Sustainability of the business for a five-year period and in a down-turned
   market;
   
   
   
   (d)	Identifies the specific items and costs for which the business is seeking
   funding from the Rehabilitation Services Administration and states the role
   they are to play in the operation of the business and generation of business
   income; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Is approved by the Chief of the Entrepreneurial Program.

   123.9. The Rehabilitation Services Administration, directly or through its
   training sources, shall assist the client in identifying a lending institution
   to which the client may apply for a business loan, if the client successfully
   completes all of the required training and develops a business plan that meets
   the Rehabilitation Services Administration&#8217;s approval.

   123.10. An individual who is receiving services under an IPE which
   specifically identifies an entrepreneurial vocational goal before the
   effective date of this section shall continue to be served in accordance with
   their IPE until the vocational goal identified in the IPE is achieved or their
   record of service is closed.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 6189 (August 1, 2003); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 6020 (June 22, 2007).
