                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUEST FOR AN INFORMAL ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW MEETING[SLASH]TIMELINESS (§
29-138)

138.1. A request for an informal administrative review meeting must be
   submitted in writing, within ten (10) business days of the determination that
   affected the provision of vocational rehabilitation services.  The time limits
   in this section may be extended by the Chief, Office of Quality Assurance and
   Federal Compliance, when good cause is shown by one party or at the request of
   both parties. This request must be addressed to:
   
   
   
   Office of Quality Assurance and Federal Compliance
   
   Attention:  Chief
   
   Department on Disability Services, Rehabilitation Services Administration
   
   1125 15th Street, NW, 9th Floor
   
   Washington, D.C.  20005
   
   (202) 442-8670 (Voice or Relay)

   138.2. Within five (5) business days after the request is received, the Chief
   of the Office of Quality Assurance and Federal Compliance (“OQAFC”) will
   do the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Forward the request to the Chief of the VRSD or Chief of the DSB; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Send a written notification to the applicant/client stating the date,
   time and location of the informal administrative review meeting.  Notification
   shall be in an Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliant format,
   including: (1) in the medium of the applicant or consumer’s choice,
   including large print, Braille, tape, disk; and (2) provided via e-mail and/or
   U.S. Priority Mail with Delivery Confirmation requested.

   138.3. (a)	Within five (5) business days of receiving the request from the
   Chief of OQAFC, the Chief of VRSD or Chief of DSB will personally meet with
   the applicant, consumer and his or her authorized representative, unless such
   meeting is inconvenient for both parties and both parties record this
   inconvenience in writing.  If both parties are unable to meet in person, they
   will participate in a telephonic conference not later than five (5) business
   days after receipt of the request from the Chief of OQAFC; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The Chief of VRSD or Chief of DSB will report the outcome of the informal
   administrative review to the Chief of OQAFC, no later than five (5) business
   days following the conclusion of the meeting.

   138.4. (a) 	If the applicant, consumer, or his or her authorized
   representative and the VRSD/DSB Chief successfully resolve the issue(s)
   addressed during the informal administrative review meeting, the Chief of
   OQAFC will place a written note in the applicant or consumer’s file noting
   the vocational rehabilitation counselor will implement the agreed upon
   resolution within ten (10) business days, absent any unforeseen circumstances
   outside of the counselor’s immediate control;
   
   
   
   (b)	If the applicant, consumer, or his or her authorized representative and
   the VRSD/DSB Chief are unable to resolve the issue(s) addressed during the
   informal administrative review meeting, the Chief of OQAFC shall notify the
   applicant or consumer in writing of his/her right to request mediation and/or
   an impartial due process hearing, in accordance with 34 CFR § 361.57, within
   five (5) business days of receiving notification of the outcome from the Chief
   of VRSD or Chief of DSB; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Notification shall be in an Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
   compliant format, including: (1) in the medium of the applicant or
   consumer’s choice, including large print, Braille, tape, disk; and (2)
   provided via e-mail and/or U.S. Priority Mail with Delivery Confirmation
   requested.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 38 DCR 2034 (April 5, 1991); as amended
   by 54 DCR 6020 (June 22, 2007); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57
   DCR 4612, 4616 (May 28, 2010).
