                                  DC REGULATIONS

POST-SECONDARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING (§ 29-122)

122.1. The Rehabilitation Services Administration may fund post-secondary
   educational expenses in accordance with this section, and as specified in an
   eligible individual&#8217;s Individualized Plan for Employment (IPE).

   122.2. The Rehabilitation Services Administration may fund post-secondary
   education and training consistent with this section, if an eligible individual
   requesting post-secondary educational services:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provides documentation of acceptance for matriculation from an accredited
   post-secondary institution as defined in § 199;
   
   
   
   (b)	Demonstrates the aptitude and ability to succeed in college level work in
   the particular course of study identified in the IPE through either past
   post-secondary academic performance or a diagnostic as-assessment conducted by
   a qualified professional, which may include at a minimum:
   
   
   
   (1)	A career assessment; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Psycho-educational assessment;
   
   
   
   (c)	Resolves any defaulted student loan or obtains a waiver from the
   Department of Education regarding any defaulted student loan;
   
   
   
   (d)	Submits a financial aid application annually to the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The post-secondary institution the individual is attending or to which the
   individual has applied;
   
   
   
   (2)	The D.C. Tuition Assistance Grant, if applicable;
   
   
   
   (3)	All other District or state funded educational assistance programs and
   school grants or financial aid;
   
   
   
   (4)	The U.S. Department of Education (The Free Application for Federal Student
   Aid (FAFSA));
   
   
   
   (5)	All federal grant programs, including the Pell Grant; and
   
   
   
   (6)	The Leverage Educational Assistance Program (LEAP);
   
   
   
   (e)	Provides the Rehabilitation Services Administration a copy of the FAFSA
   Student Aid Report (SAR) and any other aid award from each source; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Signs the Rehabilitation Services Administration&#8217;s form authorizing
   the post-secondary institution to provide the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration with information relating to the individual&#8217;s training or
   educational program, including, but not limited to:
   
   
   
   (1)	A copy of the individual&#8217;s official transcript;
   
   
   
   (2)	A copy of the individual&#8217;s grades at the conclusion of each
   semester;
   
   
   
   (3)	Attendance records;
   
   
   
   (4)	Financial awards; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Notice of any disciplinary or adverse action; and
   
   
   
   (6)	A copy of the individual&#8217;s American&#8217;s with Disabilities Act
   (ADA) accommodation plan.

   122.3. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall pay for post-secondary
   tuition costs in accordance with §§ 122.4, 122.5, and 122.6, only if the
   academic program(s) is necessary to achieve the consumer’s vocational goal.

   122.4. If a public post-secondary institution (“public institution”)
   located in the Washington, D.C. Metropolitan Area (“Area”) offers an
   academic program necessary to achieve the consumer’s vocational goal and the
   consumer chooses to attend that institution, the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration shall pay the published tuition rate of that particular public
   institution.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If a public institution located in the Area offers an academic program
   necessary to achieve the consumer’s vocational goal, but the consumer
   chooses to attend a private post-secondary institution (“private
   institution”) that is also located in the Area, the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration shall pay the published tuition rate of the University of the
   District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If either a public or private institution located in the Area offers an
   academic program necessary to achieve the consumer’s vocational goal, but
   the consumer chooses to attend a post-secondary institution (whether public or
   private) that is located outside of the Area, the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration shall pay no more than:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Three times the tuition rate published by the University of the District of
   Columbia for the applicable number of credit hours and academic term; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The published tuition rate for the necessary training program that is
   available within the Area if the training program is not based on credit
   hours.

   122.7. The individual shall be responsible for educational/training costs in
   excess of the payment rates specified in § 122.6.

   122.8. The amount of financial assistance the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration may provide for post-secondary educational and training
   expenses for each eligible individual shall not exceed the amount specified in
   the annual student expense budget determined by the post-secondary
   institution&#8217;s financial aid administrator, in accordance with the Higher
   Education Act of 1965 as amended:
   
   
   
   (a)	Adjusted to reflect the amount of tuition established under §§ 122.3,
   122.4, 122.5 or 122.6;
   
   
   
   (b)	Plus the cost of educational and training-related expenses that are
   required to enable the individual to have access to and participate in the
   institution&#8217;s educational or training program, such as:
   
   
   
   (1)	Disability-related support services for which the institution is not
   responsible;
   
   
   
   (2)	Adaptive equipment for which the institution is not responsible in
   accordance with § 120; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Books and supplies in accordance with § 120;
   
   
   
   (c)	Minus the amount of:
   
   
   
   (1)	Grants and scholarships awarded to the individual to attend the post
   secondary institution; and
   
   
   
   (2)	The individual or family financial participation in accordance with §
   124.

   122.9. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall not fund on or
   off-campus room and board, except in exceptional circumstances. Exceptional
   circumstances shall be documented annually, and shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The post-secondary educational institution requires on-campus housing, and
   the requirement is documented by the student handbook or other official school
   documents annually;
   
   
   
   (b)	Room and board are necessary to accommodate a client&#8217;s disabilities,
   as documented annually by a professional with expertise in the area of the
   individual&#8217;s disability, and the individual is actively engaged in an
   educational or training program; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Room and board are necessary for the individual receiving services outside
   of the Washington, D.C. Metropolitan Area, pursuant to § 122.5.

   122.10. An eligible individual who is receiving post-secondary educational
   expenses in accordance with this section, shall continue to receive financial
   assistance if the individual:
   
   
   
   (a)	Maintains eligibility in accordance with § 103;
   
   
   
   (b)	Maintains a minimum cumulative grade point average of C or its equivalent,
   computed annually;
   
   
   
   (c)	Maintains eligibility for financial aid in accordance with the
   post-secondary institution&#8217;s written criteria for satisfactory academic
   progress toward a degree, certificate, or certification;
   
   
   
   (d)	Attends only one post-secondary institution per academic/training year,
   transferring only after receiving prior approval of the Rehabilitation
   Services Administration and the amendment of the IPE to reflect the new
   institution unless exceptional circumstances warrant a change;
   
   
   
   (e)	Secures the prior approval of the Rehabilitation Services Administration
   and amends the IPE to specify any change(s) before changing the course of
   study or the major agreed upon in the individual&#8217;s IPE;
   
   
   
   (f)	Keeps current his or her financial obligations with the post-secondary
   institution;
   
   
   
   (g)	Participates in annual reviews for financial participation in the cost of
   services pursuant to § 124;
   
   
   
   (h)	Resolves any defaulted student loans or obtains a waiver from the
   Department of Education regarding any defaulted student loans;
   
   
   
   (i)	Annually submits a financial aid application in accordance with §
   122.2(d);
   
   
   
   (j)	Annually provides the Rehabilitation Services Administration a copy of the
   FAFSA Student Aid Re-port (SAR) and any other aid awards or scholarships from
   all sources in accordance with § 122.2(e); and
   
   
   
   (k)	Signs the Rehabilitation Services Administration&#8217;s form authorizing
   each post-secondary institution to provide the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration with information relating to the individual&#8217;s training or
   educational program pursuant to § 122.2(f), at the end of each semester, for
   the duration of any training program, and the institution has provided the
   individual&#8217;s cumulative grade point average.

   122.11. An individual must obtain prior written approval from the
   Rehabilitation Services Administration for any costs the individual expects
   the Rehabilitation Services Administration to assume. The Rehabilitation
   Services Administration shall not be responsible for the payment of any
   post-secondary educational or training costs that the individual may incur
   before receiving the Rehabilitation Services Administration&#8217;s written
   commitment to fund the costs at the post-secondary educational or training
   institution.

   122.12. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall authorize and process
   payment of post-secondary educational and training expenses, consistent with
   §§ 119, 120, 121 and this section, only after:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Rehabilitation Services Administration receives the individual&#8217;s
   cumulative grade point average at the end of each academic year; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The institution submits to the Rehabilitation Services Administration an
   invoice that states at a mini-mum, the costs for courses, training,
   registration, fees, and other agreed upon services; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The Rehabilitation Services Administration receives documentation from the
   training institution that the client has paid his or her authorized share of
   training costs.

   122.13. The Rehabilitation Services Administration may approve only one
   transfer from one post-secondary institution to another post-secondary
   institution and only one change in the vocational goal during the vocational
   rehabilitation process, unless it is determined that exceptional circumstances
   warrant a change.

   122.14. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall not fund the costs of
   a post-secondary education for, at the least, the academic semester following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Dismissal by a post-secondary institution;
   
   
   
   (b)	The individual&#8217;s failure to maintain satisfactory academic or other
   progress in accordance with the institution&#8217;s academic or performance
   requirements or financial aid eligibility criteria; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The individual&#8217;s failure to meet the institution&#8217;s
   requirements for progress toward earning a degree or to earn the requisite
   certificate for the course of study.

   122.15. Subsequent to § 122.14, the Rehabilitation Services Administration
   may reconsider funding costs of post-secondary education if the individual:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provides documentation of successful completion of a C or better while
   maintaining a full-time schedule at a post-secondary educational institution
   for one semester; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Complies with the requirements set forth in § 122.2.

   122.16. The Rehabilitation Services Administration may consider or reconsider
   an individual&#8217;s written request to pursue a post-secondary educational
   program on less than a full-time basis,
   
   
   
   (a)	Only if the request is accompanied by written documentation from a
   licensed professional with expertise in the area of the individual&#8217;s
   disability, who has assessed the individual&#8217;s capabilities and
   determined the individual&#8217;s need for a reduction from full-time
   attendance due to their disability. The individual shall submit the request
   and written documentation annually; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The individual provides documentation that less than full-time attendance
   is the only way that he or she can pursue the educational or training program.

   122.17. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall not provide financial
   assistance for an individual to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Enroll in a course that is not required for completion of the educational
   or training program;
   
   
   
   (b)	Engage in travel that is not a requirement for completion of the course of
   study or training or travel outside of the United States; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Repeat a course or training program for which the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration has already paid, unless documentation establishes that
   exceptional circumstances warrant authorization to repeat the course.

   122.18. An individual shall not withdraw from a course after the
   institution&#8217;s drop and add period is over without receiving the
   Rehabilitation Services Administration&#8217;s prior approval. This
   requirement for prior approval includes, but is not limited to, instances
   where the individual has a medical certification of incapacitation that
   prevents further matriculation.

   122.19. An individual who fails to comply with § 122.18 shall be responsible
   for paying the institution any costs associated with the individual&#8217;s
   unauthorized withdrawal.

   122.20. An individual receiving funding for post-secondary education or
   related expenditures shall notify the Rehabilitation Services Administration
   immediately of any change in his or her status as a student or trainee, such
   as:
   
   
   
   (a)	Dismissal, probation or suspension from a post-secondary institution or
   training program;
   
   
   
   (b)	Interruption in courses or training for any reason;
   
   
   
   (c)	Disciplinary actions that affect completion of the post-secondary or
   training program; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Changes in financial awards or the training institution&#8217;s
   authorization.

   122.21. An individual who fails to comply with § 122.20 may be responsible
   for paying the academic or training institution any costs associated with the
   individual&#8217;s failure to report an immediate change in his or her status
   as a student or trainee.

   122.22. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall not pay for the costs
   of post-secondary education for the semester in which the individual fails to
   comply with § 122.20.

   122.23. The Rehabilitation Services Administration may provide financial
   assistance to an eligible individual for graduate education only when:
   
   
   
   (a)	Graduate or professional certification is documented as a commonly
   recognized standard for entry into the field which is the employment goal on
   the IPE;
   
   
   
   (b)	The approved IPE states that graduate or professional education is
   necessary and essential to the achievement of the individual&#8217;s
   employment goal;
   
   
   
   (c)	The graduate or professional school has accepted the individual;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Rehabilitation Services Administration approves the request for
   graduate or professional study; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The individual who is enrolled in a graduate or professional program
   maintains the grade point aver-age required by the graduate or professional
   school for progress toward the specific degree or certificate.

   122.24. An individual who is receiving services under an IPE before the
   effective date of this section shall not be subject to §§ 122.3, 122.4,
   122.5, and 122.6 unless:
   
   
   
   (a)	The vocational goal identified in the IPE is achieved;
   
   
   
   (b)	The individual&#8217;s record of service is closed; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The individual changes their vocational goal, course of study, or major
   agreed upon in the individual&#8217;s IPE.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 6189 (August 1, 2003); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 6020 (June 22, 2007); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 4612, 4613 (May 28, 2010).
