                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPARABLE SERVICES AND BENEFITS (ยง 29-114)

114.1. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall use comparable
   benefits as defined in subsections 114.2 through 114.5, in providing
   vocational rehabilitation services and benefits.

   114.2. Prior to providing any vocational rehabilitation services, except those
   services listed in subsection 114.3 of this section, to an eligible
   individual, or to members of the individual&#8217;s family, the Rehabilitation
   Services Administration shall determine whether comparable services and
   benefits, as defined in section 199, exist under any other program and whether
   those services and benefits are available to the individual unless such a
   determination would interrupt or delay:
   
   
   
   (a)	The progress of the individual toward achieving the employment outcome
   identified in the individualized plan for employment;
   
   
   
   (b)	An immediate job placement; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The provision of vocational rehabilitation services to any individual who
   is determined to be at extreme medical risk, based on medical evidence
   provided by an appropriate qualified medical professional.

   114.3. The following vocational rehabilitation services described in section
   113 are exempt from a determination of the availability of comparable services
   and benefits under subsection 114.2 of this section:
   
   
   
   (a)	Assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation
   needs;
   
   
   
   (b)	Counseling and guidance, including information and support services to
   assist an individual in exercising informed choice;
   
   
   
   (c)	Referral and other services to secure needed services from other agencies,
   including other components of the statewide workforce investment system, if
   those services are not available under this chapter;
   
   
   
   (d)	Job-related services, including job search and placement assistance, job
   retention services, follow-up services, and follow-along services;
   
   
   
   (e)	Rehabilitation technology, including telecommunications, sensory, and
   other technological aids and devices; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Post-employment services consisting of the services listed under
   subsections 114.3(a) through (e) of this section.

   114.4. If comparable services or benefits exist under any other program and
   are available to the individual at the time needed to ensure the progress of
   the individual toward achieving the employment outcome in the
   individual&#8217;s IPE, the Rehabilitation Services Administration shall use
   those comparable services or benefits to meet, in whole or part, the costs of
   the vocational rehabilitation services.

   114.5. If comparable services or benefits exist under any other program, but
   are not available to the individual at the time needed to ensure the progress
   of the individual toward achieving the employment outcome in the eligible
   individual&#8217;s IPE, the Rehabilitation Services Administration shall
   authorize the appropriate vocational rehabilitation services only until those
   comparable services and benefits become available.

   114.6. The applicant or eligible individual shall be responsible for
   cooperating with the Client Services Division in seeking and promptly applying
   for comparable services and benefits.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 27 DCR 4611 (October 17, 1980); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 6189 (August 1, 2003).
