                                  DC REGULATIONS

USE AND CONFIDENTIALITY OF INDIVIDUAL INFORMATION (ยง 29-118)

118.1. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall keep records to
   document information about applicants and eligible individuals in the
   administration of vocational rehabilitation services division.

   118.2. All information regarding an applicant or eligible individual provided
   to or created by the Rehabilitation Services Administration, its
   representatives, or its employees, in the course of the administration of the
   vocational rehabilitation services division shall be privileged and
   confidential.

   118.3. The applicant or eligible individual has a right to privacy and shall
   be informed about the confidential nature of information acquired and the
   conditions governing inspection of records.

   118.4. All confidential records shall be kept an office(s) designated by the
   Rehabilitation Services Administration.

   118.5. The information shall be considered privileged and the case record or
   information shall not be released in judicial or administrative proceedings,
   either voluntarily or as a result of any subpoena or judicial process,
   including requests from a government authority, the courts, law enforcement
   officials, or from any other outside source, with the following exceptions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Information or the contents of the record of services may be released upon
   the direct order of a judge as part of a judicial proceeding; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Information may be released with the specific written consent of the
   applicant or eligible individual (or guardian or individual&#8217;s
   representative), after the applicant or eligible individual has been informed
   of the right of choice over release of the information.

   118.6. Confidential records shall be open to inspection in the Rehabilitation
   Services Administration&#8217;s office only under the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	By authorized Rehabilitation Services Administration employees and those
   of the United States government, department of education, in connection with
   their official duties in the administration of the vocational rehabilitation
   programs;
   
   
   
   (b)	By personnel of a rehabilitation agency approved by the Administrator of
   the Rehabilitation Services Administration when inspection of the record is
   for the sole purpose of providing related rehabilitation services and the
   agency and personnel are subject to standards of confidentiality comparable to
   those of the Rehabilitation Services Administration; and
   
   
   
   (c)	By an outside source, when a written waiver specifically consenting to
   have the record reviewed has been obtained from the applicant or eligible
   individual or legal guardian or individual&#8217;s representative.

   118.7. The use or disclosure of information concerning applicants and eligible
   individuals shall be limited to purposes directly connected with the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The administration of the vocational rehabilitation, supported employment,
   independent living, or other programs of the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration for the purpose of:
   
   
   
   (1)	Establishing eligibility;
   
   
   
   (2)	Determining the nature and scope of services; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Providing services; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The investigation, prosecution, or criminal or civil proceeding conducted
   in connection with the administration of the program, unless expressly
   prohibited by Federal or District of Columbia laws, rules or regulations.

   118.8. The Rehabilitation Services Administration shall secure the written and
   informed consent of the applicant or eligible individual or legal guardian or
   individual&#8217;s representative as authorization for requesting information
   about the applicant or eligible individual from other agencies or individuals.
   Copies of signed consent forms shall be maintained in the record of services.

   118.9. When requested in writing by the applicant or eligible individual or
   their guardian or individual&#8217;s representative, the Rehabilitation
   Services Administration shall make all information in the case record
   accessible to them in a timely manner.

   118.10. If the Rehabilitation Services Administration believes that medical,
   psychological, or other information that may be harmful to the individual, may
   not be released directly to the individual, the Rehabilitation Services
   Administration may provide such information through their guardian or
   individual&#8217;s representative, a physician or a licensed or certified
   psychologist.

   118.11. An applicant or eligible individual who believes that information in
   the individual&#8217;s record of services is inaccurate or misleading may
   request that the Rehabilitation Services Administration amend the information.
   If the information is not amended, the request for an amendment shall be
   documented in the record of services.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 27 DCR 4611 (October 17, 1980); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 6189 (August 1, 2003); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 4612 (May 28, 2010).
