                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION (§ 30-2015)

2015.1. Upon the recommendation of the Executive Director, the Board may debar
   a business for cause from consideration for award of contracts or subcontracts
   by the Agency. The debarment shall not be for a period of more than three (3)
   years.

   2015.2. Upon the recommendation of the Executive Director, the Board may
   suspend a business from consideration for award of contracts if there is
   probable cause for debarment.

   2015.3. The Board shall issue a written decision to debar or suspend. The
   decision shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the debarred
   or suspended business involved of its right to judicial review.

   2015.4. The decision of the Board issued under §2015.3 shall be final and
   conclusive unless fraudulent. The filing of a judicial appeal by the debarred
   or suspended business shall not stay the decision.

   2015.5. Unless otherwise indicated in the decision issued under §2015.3, the
   debarment or suspension shall also constitute a debarment or suspension of all
   affiliates of the contractor or subcontractor and businesses in which they
   have a substantial financial interest.

   2015.6. Causes for debarment or suspension related to criminal activity shall
   include, but are not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Conviction of a criminal offense incident to obtaining or any attempt to
   obtain a public or private contract, or subcontract, or in the performance of
   the contract or subcontract;
   
   
   
   (b)	Conviction under District or federal statutes for embezzlement, theft,
   forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, receiving stolen
   property, or any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity which
   currently affects the contractor&#8217;s responsibility as an Agency
   contractor; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Conviction under District, federal, or state antitrust statutes arising
   out of the submission of bids or proposals.

   2015.7. The Board may also debar or suspend a business for violation of
   contract provisions of a character that is regarded by the Board to be
   sufficiently serious to justify debarment action, as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Willful failure without good cause to perform in accordance with the
   specifications or within the time limit provided in the contract;
   
   
   
   (b)	A recent record of failure to perform or of unsatisfactory performance in
   accordance with the terms or conditions of one (1) or more contracts. Failure
   to perform or unsatisfactory performance caused by acts beyond the control of
   a contractor shall not be considered to be basis for debarment; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A false assertion of minority status as defined in the Minority
   Contracting Act of 1976, D.C. Law 1-95.

   2015.8. The Board may also suspend or debar a contractor for any other cause
   the Board determines to be sufficiently serious and compelling to affect
   responsibility as a contractor, including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Debarment by another District or federal governmental entity for cause; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Any cause which would be grounds for disqualification for a suppliers
   license under D.C. Code §2-2528 (1994 Repl. Vol.).

   2015.9. The Director of Procurement shall obtain lists of debarred and
   suspended businesses from the Director, DAS and shall inform the Director, of
   any debarments or suspensions effected by the Agency, in accordance with
   §§2210 and 2211 of Title 27 DCMR.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6691 (September 22, 1989).
