                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUIRED SOURCES OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES (§ 30-2013)

2013.1. Except for the procurement of utility services, or as authorized under
   this chapter or by law, the Agency shall satisfy requirements for supplies and
   services from or through the sources and publications listed in this
   subsection in descending order of priority:
   
   
   
   (a)	Existing inventories maintained by the Agency;
   
   
   
   (b)	Excess from other District agencies or federal agencies, as long as the
   excess items are readily available without cost or at a lower cost than any
   other source;
   
   
   
   (c)	Existing requirements contracts executed by the Agency or other District
   requirements contracts which, pursuant to agreement between the Executive
   Director and the Director, DAS, or other District procurement official,
   include the Agency as a using agency;
   
   
   
   (d)	To the extent of the minimums required under the applicable term contract,
   existing indefinite quantity contracts executed by the Agency or other •
   District indefinite quantity contracts which, pursuant to agreement between
   the Executive Director and the Director, DAS or other District procurement
   official, include the Agency as a using agency;
   
   
   
   (e)	Procurement lists of products and services available from the Committee
   for Purchase of Products and Services of the Blind and Other Severely
   Handicapped;
   
   
   
   (f)	Federal supply schedules, to the extent that the items available meet the
   minimum requirements of the Agency and can be obtained at prices lower than
   can be obtained with a new contract;
   
   
   
   (g)	District of Columbia Department of Corrections, Industries Division;
   
   
   
   (h)	Federal Prison Industries, Inc.; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Other sources, including open and sheltered market commercial sources, and
   educational and nonprofit institutions.

   2013.2. The provisions of Chapter 21 of Title 27 DCMR shall apply to
   procurement by the Agency, except as provided otherwise in this section.

   2013.3. The requirements of §2103.1 of Title 27 DCMR shall apply to the
   Director, DAS and shall not apply to the Director of Procurement; Provided,
   that the Director of Procurement shall attempt to obtain information from the
   Director, with respect to the availability of supplies and services to the
   Agency under District term contracts.

   2013.4. The provisions of §2105.2 of Title 27 DCMR shall not apply to
   procurement by the Agency.

   2013.5. Exceptions to requirements for purchasing from handicapped and prison
   sources under §2112 of Title 27 DCMR may be granted by the Director of
   Procurement, in accordance with the provisions of §2112 of Title 27 DCMR.

   2013.6. The provisions of §2115 of Title 27 DCMR relating to procurement of
   printing services shall not apply to procurement by the Agency.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6690 (September 22, 1989).
