                                  DC REGULATIONS

SHELTERED MARKET SUBCONTRACTING (ยง 30-2008)

2008.1. The contracting officer shall review each solicitation that has not
   been designated for the sheltered market to determine whether the sheltered
   market program established by the Board would apply to subcontracts that might
   be let under the proposed contract, in accordance with Chapter 6 of Title 27
   DCMR.

   2008.2. The contracting officer shall include in each solicitation for which a
   portion of the subcontracting is designated for the sheltered market a clause,
   approved by the Director, which sets forth the requirements for a sheltered
   market subcontracting plan, including the time limits for submitting the plan.

   2008.3. Each certified minority business subcontracting plan shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A percentage goal for using certified minority businesses;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name of an individual employed by the bidder or offeror who will
   administer the sheltered market subcontracting program, and a description of
   the duties of the individual;
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of the efforts the bidder or offeror will make to ensure
   that certified minority businesses will have an equitable opportunity to
   compete for subcontracts;
   
   
   
   (d)	In subcontracts that offer. further subcontracting opportunities,
   assurances that the bidder or offeror will include a clause, approved by the
   Director, that the sub-contractor will adopt a sheltered market plan similar
   to the plan in the contract;
   
   
   
   (e)	Assurances that the bidder or offeror will cooperate in studies or surveys
   that may be required by the contracting officer, and submit periodic reports
   to the contracting officer to allow the Agency to determine the extent of
   compliance by the bidder or offeror with the subcontracting plan;
   
   
   
   (f)	A description of the types of records the bidder or offeror will maintain
   to demonstrate compliance with the subcontracting plan, including establishing
   source lists; and
   
   
   
   (g)	A description of the bidder&#8217;s or offeror&#8217;s recent efforts to
   locate certified minority businesses and to award subcontracts to those
   businesses.

   2008.4. For each solicitation in which a portion of the subcontracting is
   designated for the sheltered market, the contracting officer shall require the
   low bidder or the apparently successful offeror to submit a sheltered market
   subcontracting plan.

   2008.5. If the low bidder or apparently successful offeror does not submit a
   sheltered market subcontracting plan within the time limit set by the
   contracting officer in the solicitation, that bidder or offeror shall be
   ineligible for award.

   2008.6. A contractor may establish a master subcontracting plan which contains
   all the elements required except percentage goals, subject to approval by the
   contracting officer. The contracting officer shall recognize the master
   subcontracting plan for a one (1) year period after approval.

   2008.7. When incorporated in an individual contract, a master subcontracting
   plan shall apply to that contract throughout the life of the contract.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6687 (September 22, 1989).
