                                  DC REGULATIONS

EVIDENCE AT THE HEARING (ยง 17-1726)

1726.1. All testimony at a hearing before a Hearing Examiner shall be under
   oath or affirmation.

   1726.2. If any part of the record in any other proceeding previously held
   before a Hearing Examiner, or part of the record in any criminal or civil
   action, including hearings before any administrative agency, is offered in
   evidence, a certified true copy of that part shall be presented to the
   Director in the form of an exhibit, unless either of the following
   requirements is satisfied:
   
   
   
   (a)	The record is specified in such manner as to be readily identified, and
   the person offering the record agrees to supply copies later or when required
   by the Director; or
   
   (b)	There is a stipulation that the record may be incorporated by reference
   and the Director orders that incorporation.

   1726.3. A Hearing Examiner shall exclude irrelevant, immaterial, and unduly
   repetitious evidence.

   1726.4. A Hearing Examiner may take official notice, at the request of a party
   or on its own motion, of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The law and rules of the District of Columbia, the United States, or any
   state or other jurisdiction of the United States;
   
   
   
   (b)	Material facts in the official files of a board, the Department, or other
   District of Columbia or federal agency; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A fact that is not subject to reasonable dispute in that it is generally
   known within the District of Columbia or is capable of accurate and ready
   determination by resort to resources the accuracy of which cannot reasonably
   be requested.

   1726.5. If a Hearing Examiner takes official notice of a material fact not
   appearing in the evidence in the record, it shall give a party the opportunity
   to show the contrary at the hearing or on motion made within five (5) days
   after the hearing.

   1726.6. The parties may, by stipulation in writing filed with a Hearing
   Examiner, agree on the facts or any portion thereof involved in a hearing. The
   parties may stipulate to the testimony that would be given by a witness if the
   witness were present.

   1726.7. The Hearing Examiner may require additional evidence concerning any
   matter covered by a stipulation.

   1726.8. The Director shall take all necessary steps to insure that all
   department employees who are called by a party as a witness are present at the
   hearing; provided, that the party has submitted their names and titles in
   writing to the Hearing Examiner at least three (3) business days in advance of
   the hearing.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking at 50 DCR 9549 (November 14, 2003).
