                                  DC REGULATIONS

MOTIONS AND OTHER PLEADINGS (ยง 17-1723)

1723.1. Except by leave of the Hearing Examiner during a hearing, an
   application for an order or other relief shall be made by written motion. A
   motion shall state with particularity the grounds on which it is based and
   shall clearly set forth the order or relief sought. If a motion is to be
   supported by memoranda, affidavits, or other papers, they shall be attached
   and served with the motion.

   1723.2. A copy of each motion, opposition, reply, or other pleading filed
   shall be served on each party separately represented, and a certificate of
   service shall appear at the end of the pleading showing the date and method of
   service.

   1723.3. Any party may file a response or opposition to a motion within ten
   (10) days after service of the motion but the Hearing Examiner may shorten or
   extend this time. The response or opposition shall not include a motion for
   other affirmative relief against the moving party.

   1723.4. A reply to a response or opposition may be filed within three (3) days
   after service of the response or opposition, but a reply shall not re-argue
   propositions, presented in the motion nor present matters which are not
   strictly in reply to the response or opposition. No further pleadings may be
   filed except by leave of the Hearing Examiner.

   1723.5. A motion or other pleading shall meet the following additional
   requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	It shall be submitted on business size eight and one-half inches by eleven
   inch paper;
   
   
   
   (b)	It shall contain the name and number of the case, if any;
   
   
   
   (c)	It shall be double-spaced, except footnotes and quotations, which may be
   single- spaced;
   
   
   
   (d)	It shall be signed by the party on whose behalf it is filed or by that
   party&#8217;s counsel; and
   
   
   
   (e)	It shall be accompanied by an additional copy unless the Hearing Examiner
   permits the parties to file a lesser number of copies.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking at 50 DCR 9549 (November 14, 2003).
