                                  DC REGULATIONS

PETITIONS BASED ON CLAIM OF HARDSHIP (§ 14-4209)

4209.1. A housing provider who elects not to take and perfect a rent ceiling
   adjustment of general applicability under § 206(a) of the Act may petition
   the Rent Administrator once during each calendar year for a rent ceiling
   adjustment authorized by §§ 206(b) and 212 of the Act (a “hardship
   petition”).

   4209.2. A housing provider shall be eligible to file a hardship petition if
   either of the following requirements are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	Nine (9) months have elapsed since the filing of any prior hardship
   petition under § 212 of the Act or prior rent control laws; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Nine (9) months have elapsed since the implementation of any increase of
   general applicability under subsection 206(b) of the Act or prior rent control
   laws.

   4209.3. The owner of property which has been determined to be abandoned or a
   continuing nuisance to the immediate surrounding area shall not be eligible to
   elect and file a hardship petition under §§ 206 and 212 of the Rental
   Housing Act of 1985 to abate the nuisance.

   4209.4. A housing provider shall file a hardship petition on a form approved
   by the Rent Administrator and the financial information required to be
   submitted with a hardship petition shall be in the same form as the financial
   information requested on Form FP-308 of the Office of Tax and Revenue.

   4209.5. The Hardship Petition Form shall contain instructions for computing
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The net income of the housing accommodation;
   
   
   
   (b)	The housing provider’s equity in the housing accommodation;
   
   
   
   (c)	The rate of return the housing accommodation is yielding on the housing
   provider’s equity;
   
   
   
   (d)	The dollar amount of the rent increase that will be added to the rent
   ceiling of each registered rental unit in the housing accommodation; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The rent ceiling(s) before and after the rent increase.

   4209.6. When determining the net income of a housing accommodation, the
   following standards shall apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The maximum possible rental income for the twelve (12) consecutive month
   period shall be the aggregate of the rent ceilings for each rental unit during
   each month of the period, whether or not actually rented;
   
   
   
   (b)	In determining the management fee under operating expenses, whether in an
   owner-managed building or where management services have been provided under a
   contract with a management firm, the owner must provide proof of management
   services provided and expenditures claimed; and
   
   
   
   (c)	In determining depreciation expenses as reflected in decreased real
   property tax assessments, a housing provider shall include the decreased
   assessments that are applicable to both the land and the improvements.

   4209.7. When determining the housing provider’s equity in a housing
   accommodation, the following standards shall apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	Encumbrances that will reduce the assessed value shall include all
   mortgages, liens, and secured claims, whether incurred or directly related to
   the purchase, the capital improvement, or the substantial rehabilitation of
   the rental property; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The assessed value of a housing accommodation shall be the official
   assessment of the property by the D.C. Tax Assessor during the twelve (12)
   month reporting period, or a weighted average of the assessments (if there is
   more than one).

   4209.8. A housing provider shall not include any of the following types of
   expenses as operating expenses on a hardship petition:
   
   
   
   (a)	Membership fees in organizations established to influence legislation and
   regulation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Contributions to lobbying efforts;
   
   
   
   (c)	Contributions for legal fees in the prosecution of class action cases;
   
   
   
   (d)	Political contributions to candidates for office;
   
   
   
   (e)	Mortgage principal payments;
   
   
   
   (f)	Maintenance expenses for which the housing provider has been reimbursed by
   any security deposit, insurance settlement, judgment for damages, agreed-upon
   payments, or any other method;
   
   
   
   (g)	Attorney’s fees charged for services connected with counseling
   litigation related to actions brought by the District of Columbia government
   due to the housing provider’s repeated failure to comply with this Act or
   applicable housing regulations as evidenced by violations issued by the
   Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs;
   
   
   
   (h)	Any expenses for which the tenant has lawfully paid directly; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Any court judgments relating to the operation of the rental property.

   4209.9. The hardship petition form shall require a housing provider to list
   and value all current encumbrances and certify that the status of the
   property, as presented, is correct.

   4209.10. A hearing examiner may require the housing provider to submit
   verification of the present status of encumbrances on the property.

   4209.11. When adjudicating a hardship petition, the issues to be resolved may
   include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The accuracy and verifiability of the income-expense data included on the
   hardship petition form;
   
   
   
   (b)	The determination that the financial data represents the experience of the
   housing accommodation during a base period of any twelve (12) consecutive
   months within the fifteen (15) months preceding the date of filing of the
   petition;
   
   
   
   (c)	The accuracy and verifiability of the financial information on the
   assessed value of the housing accommodation;
   
   
   
   (d)	The accuracy of the calculations made by the housing provider in
   completing the hardship petition form;
   
   
   
   (e)	The existence of a valid registration statement for the housing
   accommodation;
   
   
   
   (f)	The determination of whether substantial violations for the housing
   regulations existed on the date the hardship petition was filed, or whether
   violations exist on the date of the petition hearing; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Whether expenses for maintenance and repairs are ordinary, capital or
   extraordinary and whether they should be fully charged to the reporting period
   or depreciated for their useful life.

   4209.12. When filing a hardship petition, the following shall apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	A housing provider may elect to use either the accrual basis or the cash
   basis method of accounting;
   
   
   
   (b)	The hearing examiner shall accept the housing provider’s accounting
   method in determining the initial rate of return of a housing accommodation;
   
   
   
   (c)	Once the election has been made, all subsequent hardship petitions for
   that housing accommodation shall be filed using the same method of accounting
   for income and expenses; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The housing provider shall specifically petition the Rent Administrator to
   change the method of accounting for income and expenses used in any subsequent
   hardship petition. A change shall be allowed upon a finding that the different
   accounting method used for the petition being filed shall not materially
   distort, transfer, alter, or otherwise improperly state the income or expense
   data of the housing accommodation for the reporting period involved.

   4209.13. Under the accrual method of accounting, income and expenses shall be
   recognized in the hardship petition upon the vesting of the unconditional
   legal right to receive or pay.

   4209.14. When a petition is filed using the accrual method of accounting, the
   Rent Administrator may require, as proof of accrued income or expense items,
   evidence of subsequent (after the reporting period) receipt of payment.

   4209.15. For purposes of this section, the term “uncollected rents,” as
   defined in § 103(37) of the Act and § 4502.1 shall not be allowed as an
   expense under the accrual method of accounting.

   4209.16. Under the cash basis method of accounting, only those income items
   actually received or paid during the reporting period may be included in the
   petition; provided, that expenses reported shall not exceed expenses for more
   than a twelve (12) month period.

   4209.17. A housing provider shall provide to the hearing examiner, upon filing
   a hardship petition, underlying documents to substantiate the income and
   operating expense schedule of the housing accommodation. The documents shall
   include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Copies of bills received for the accommodation during the twelve (12)
   month period;
   
   
   
   (b)	Copies of cancelled checks and bank statements for the housing
   accommodation during the twelve (12) month period; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Copies of ledgers, journals, or other internally generated records on the
   financial transactions of the housing accommodation during the twelve (12)
   month period.

   4209.18. The Rent Administrator shall exclude the following expenses set forth
   in a hardship petition:
   
   
   
   (a)	Expenses, whether accrued or paid, before or after the twelve (12) months;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any expense prohibited in § 4209.7;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any expense which, while charged to the subject housing accommodation, was
   actually incurred for another housing accommodation;
   
   
   
   (d)	Any expense which cannot be verified by external financial documents
   listed in § 4209.16; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Any expense for which substantial evidence supports a finding that the
   particular expense does not reflect actual events or experiences in the
   housing accommodation.

   4209.19. At the time the hardship petition is filed, the housing provider
   shall provide the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	One (1) copy of the petition for each rental unit in the housing
   accommodation, plus two (2) copies of the petition for the Rent Administrator;
   
   
   
   (b)	Postage paid envelopes addressed to the tenant by name of each affected
   rental unit in the housing accommodation;
   
   
   
   (c)	Copies of the certificate of occupancy and housing business license (where
   applicable), and proof of payment of the annual registration fee; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A copy of the rent roll.

   4209.20. Notwithstanding the provisions of chapters 39 and 40, the Rent
   Administrator shall administratively consider and dispose of each hardship
   petition according to the following procedures:
   
   
   
   (a)	Promptly upon receipt of a properly executed and filed hardship petition,
   the Rent Administrator shall notify each tenant of a rental unit covered by
   the petition of the pendency of the petition, and of the procedures for
   disposing of the petition;
   
   
   
   (b)	The notice to tenants required by a § 4209.19(a) shall inform the tenants
   of their right to designate within thirty (30) days a tenant representative
   pursuant to § 4004 to appear and act on their behalf in all matters regarding
   the petition, and to form a tenant organization for this purpose if none
   exists;
   
   
   
   	EDITOR’S NOTE: The reference to “§ 4005” in the Notice of Final
   Rulemaking published at 33 DCR at 1398 and the July 1991 edition of Title 14
   of the District of Columbia Municipal Regulations was corrected to read
   “section 4004” in the text of § 4209.19(b).
   
   
   
   (c)	The notice to tenants shall further inform them of sources of technical
   assistance, and of the right of each tenant and the designated tenant
   representative to review or obtain a copy of the hardship petition including
   all supporting documentation at the office of the Rent Administrator;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Rent Administrator shall consider and review the hardship petition and
   supporting documentation and, within twenty (20) days following the filing of
   the petition, shall issue and serve on the parties an audit report with
   recommendations regarding the acceptance or denial of expenditures and other
   financial claims and the final disposition of the hardship petition;
   
   
   
   (e)	The Rent Administrator’s audit report shall contain findings of fact and
   conclusions of law regarding the calculation of the amount of the rent ceiling
   adjustment, if any, to be recommended, and shall be based solely upon the
   hardship petition and the supporting documentation filed by the housing
   provider, but without a hearing;
   
   
   
   (f)	Simultaneously with service of the audit report, the Rent Administrator
   shall notify each party as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	That the party shall have thirty (30) days in which to file with the Rent
   Administrator and serve on all other parties, written exceptions and/or
   objections to specific findings, conclusions, and calculations of the audit
   report;
   
   
   
   (2)	That, in the absence of timely filed exceptions and/or objections, the
   audit report and recommendations shall become a final order forty-five (45)
   days after its issuance; and
   
   
   
   (3)	If exceptions or objections are filed, a hearing limited to the exceptions
   or objections shall be held within forty-five (45) days after issuance of the
   audit report;
   
   
   
   (g)	All notices, petitions, pleadings and other documents are required to be
   served on the designated tenant representative, if any, and, if none has been
   designated, on each tenant individually, in pre-addressed, postage paid
   envelopes supplied by the housing provider;
   
   
   
   (h)	Any hearing on a hardship petition required to be held by this section
   shall be held no later than ninety (90) days following the date of filing of
   the hardship petition, and the Rent Administrator’s audit report and
   recommendation may after the hearing be deemed the “provisional finding”
   under § 212(c) of the Act for the purposes of authorizing a provisional rent
   ceiling adjustment; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Except as modified by this section, the provisions of chapters 39 and 40
   shall govern the disposition of hardship petitions.

   4209.21. The amount of increase in the rent ceiling that a housing provider
   may take and perfect under § 212 of the Act shall be the amount required to
   provide a twelve percent (12%) rate of return computed according to § 212(b)
   of the Act.

   4209.22. A housing provider may take and perfect a rent ceiling adjustment
   pursuant to a final order of the Rent Administrator on a hardship petition no
   sooner than twelve (12) months following the date of implementation of any
   prior rent ceiling adjustment of general applicability or rent ceiling
   adjustment based on a claim of hardship.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336, 1393-1398 (March
   7, 1986); as amended by: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 2656,
   2666-67 (May 2, 1986); and Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 3179
   (May 23, 1986); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR
   7487(August 2, 2002).
   
   
   
   	EDITOR’S NOTE: The District of Columbia Office of the Chief Financial
   Officer published a Notice of Public Interest at 44 DCR 2345 (April 18, 1997)
   which advised that “[t]he OFFICE OF TAX AND REVENUE will assume all of the
   duties and functions previously performed by the DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND
   REVENUE, as set forth in Commissioner’s Order 69-96, dated March 7, 1969.”
   All references to the “Department of Finance and Revenue” in the original
   text of these regulations have been replaced with the “Office of Tax and
   Revenue.”
