                                  DC REGULATIONS

PETITIONS FOR SUBSTANTIAL REHABILITATION (§ 14-4212)

4212.1. A housing provider who proposes to substantially rehabilitate a rental
   unit or housing accommodation may petition the Rent Administrator for an
   increase in the rent ceiling for the rental unit or housing accommodation
   under § 214 of the Act (a “substantial rehabilitation petition”).

   4212.2. A housing provider shall file a substantial rehabilitation petition on
   a form prescribed by the Rent Administrator and shall include with the
   petition the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Detailed plans, specifications and projected cost of the proposed
   rehabilitation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Documentation of the assessed value of the housing accommodation as
   determined by the D.C. Office of Tax and Revenue for real estate taxation
   purposes for the tax year beginning no later than sixty (60) days after the
   date on which the petition is filed; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A schedule showing all rental units in the housing accommodation to be
   rehabilitated showing whether the rental unit is vacant or occupied and, if
   vacant, the date and cause of its vacation.

   4212.3. A housing provider shall not begin the rehabilitation of any rental
   unit or housing accommodation or seek to evict a tenant in order to
   rehabilitate a rental unit without the prior approval of the Rent
   Administrator.

   4212.4. The Rent Administrator shall consider and dispose of each substantial
   rehabilitation petition within sixty (60) days of the date on which the
   petition is filed.

   4212.5. The Rent Administrator shall grant a substantial rehabilitation
   petition without a hearing if the Rent Administrator finds the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That each rental unit for which a rent ceiling adjustment is sought is
   vacant;
   
   
   
   (b)	That no rental unit in subsection (a) was vacated in violation of §§ 501
   or 502 of the Act; and
   
   
   
   (c)	That the cost of the proposed substantial rehabilitation exceeds fifty
   percent (50%) of the assessed value of the rental unit or housing
   accommodation; provided, that the assessed value of a rental unit shall be
   that portion of the assessed value of the housing accommodation calculated by
   multiplying the assessed value of the housing accommodation calculated by a
   fraction whose numerator is the square footage of the rental unit and whose
   denominator is the total square footage of the housing accommodation including
   all common elements.

   4212.6. If any rental unit for which a rent ceiling adjustment is requested
   under this section is occupied, the Rent Administrator shall consider and
   dispose of the petition pursuant to the hearing provisions of chapters 39 and
   40.

   4212.7. A housing provider who has filed a petition under this section
   affecting an occupied rental unit shall promptly serve on the tenant of the
   occupied unit a notice of intent to substantially rehabilitate the rental unit
   or housing accommodation in which it is located which shall state at least the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That a petition to allow substantial rehabilitation has been filed with
   the Rent Administrator who will review the petition;
   
   
   
   (b)	That no work that will displace or inconvenience tenants, and no work in
   any occupied apartment, without a tenant’s permission, will begin for at
   least one hundred twenty (120) days;
   
   
   
   (c)	Whether the tenants will be required to vacate in order to perform the
   work necessary for the substantial rehabilitation, if it is approved;
   
   
   
   (d)	If the tenants shall be required to vacate for completion of the proposed
   rehabilitation, that the notice is the one hundred twenty (120) day notice to
   vacate required by § 501(f) of the Act;
   
   
   
   (e)	That upon completion of substantial rehabilitation the tenants have the
   right to re-rent their former rental units at the newly authorized rent
   ceiling; and
   
   
   
   (f)	That the tenants are entitled to relocation assistance as provided in
   title VII of the Act if they are required to vacate in order for the necessary
   work to be done. Where the tenants shall be required to vacate if the petition
   is approved, the initial notice shall contain the language set forth in § 501
   of the Act.

   4212.8. The Rent Administrator shall grant a substantial rehabilitation
   petition affecting an occupied rental unit only if the Rent Administrator
   finds the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the proposed rehabilitation is in the interest of the tenant of the
   rental unit;
   
   
   
   (b)	That the cost of the proposed rehabilitation equals or exceeds fifty
   percent (50%) of the assessed value of the rental unit or housing
   accommodation as determined under § 4212.5(c); and
   
   
   
   (c)	That the building permit for the proposed rehabilitation was issued after
   January 31, 1973.

   4212.9. To determine whether a proposed substantial rehabilitation is in the
   interest of the tenant, the Rent Administrator may consider the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The existing physical condition of the rental unit or housing
   accommodation as shown by reports or testimony of D.C. housing inspectors,
   licensed engineers, architects and contractors, or other qualified experts;
   
   
   
   (b)	Whether the existing physical condition impairs or tends to impair the
   health, safety or welfare of any tenant;
   
   
   
   (c)	Whether the existing physical conditions can be corrected by improved
   maintenance, repair or capital improvement; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The impact of the proposed rehabilitation on the tenant or tenants in
   terms of proposed financial cost, inconvenience or relocation.

   4212.10. The amount of a rent ceiling increase that a housing provider may
   take and implement pursuant to a final order of the Rent Administrator on a
   substantial rehabilitation petition shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The amount which authorizes rent increases sufficient to repay a loan in
   the principal amount of the cost of the approved rehabilitation over the
   amortization period and at the rate of interest documented by the housing
   provider in a bona fide loan commitment agreement with a lender; or
   
   
   
   (b)	In the absence of a loan commitment agreement, over an amortization period
   of two hundred forty (240) months at the rate of interest equal to two (2)
   points above the average monthly bank prime loan rate established by the
   Federal Reserve Board in Publication H-15, Selected Interest Rates, for the
   week in which the substantial rehabilitation petition is filed; provided, that
   the amount of the rent ceiling shall not exceed one hundred twenty-five
   percent (125%) of the rent ceiling at the time the petition is filed.

   4212.11. A housing provider shall take and perfect a rent ceiling adjustment
   pursuant to final order of the Rent Administrator on a substantial
   rehabilitation petition in the manner set forth in § 4204.10, and the date of
   perfection of the rent ceiling adjustment shall be the date on which the
   housing provider satisfies the notice requirements of § 4101.6; provided,
   that a housing provider shall not take and implement a rent ceiling increase
   under this section until the approved substantial rehabilitation has been
   completed.

   4212.12. Where a housing provider increases the rent for a rental unit to an
   amount equal to or less than the rent ceiling adjustment permitted by §
   4212.1, the housing provider shall comply with the provisions of §§ 4205.4
   and 4205.5, and the notices required by §§ 4101.6 and 4205.4(a) may be
   issued simultaneously on a form of notice approved by the Rent Administrator.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336, 1404 (March 7,
   1986); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 2656, 2668 (May 2,
   1986).
   
   
   
   	EDITOR’S NOTE: The District of Columbia Office of the Chief Financial
   Officer published a Notice of Public Interest at 44 DCR 2345 (April 18, 1997)
   which advised that “[t]he OFFICE OF TAX AND REVENUE will assume all of the
   duties and functions previously performed by the DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND
   REVENUE, as set forth in Commissioner’s Order 69-96, dated March 7, 1969.”
   All references to the “Department of Finance and Revenue” in the original
   text of these regulations have been replaced with the “Office of Tax and
   Revenue.”
