                                  DC REGULATIONS

AGENCY REPRESENTATIVES (§ 1-304)

304.1. Each agency, department, office, or other governmental entity that
   submits documents for publication in the D.C. Register shall designate, from
   its Director&#8217;s office or General Counsel’s office, a representative
   and alternate to service as a liaison to the Office of Documents and
   Administrative Issuances. All representatives shall be called “agency
   liaisons.”

   304.2. Agency liaisons and Directors shall be the main contact persons in
   matters relating to the publication of documents in the D.C. Register. All
   documents submitted by an agency for publication, including notices and
   rulemaking documents must be submitted through the agency liaison or Director.

   304.3. Designation of an agency liaison does not exempt an agency from the
   required review of the substance of rulemaking documents and legal
   certification by the Office of the Attoney General. Legal certification by
   agency counsel must be approved by the Administrator.

   304.5. Each agency liaison shall be responsible for the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Representation of the agency in all matters relating to compliance with
   the provisions of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Responding to inquiries from the Office of Documents and Administrative
   Issuances concerning documents or notices submitted by the agency for
   publication;
   
   
   
   (c)	Ensuring that the agency head or other official authorized by law to
   promulgate rules or attest to the promulgation of rules has reviewed all
   rulemaking notices and the rulemaking text, and has signed the required
   transmittal form, either in hard-copy or electronically, in accordance with
   the provisions of §    ;
   
   
   
   (d)	Ensuring that the required legal certification is set forth on the
   transmittal form in accordance with the provisions of §307; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Ensuring that all other documents are in compliance with the Rules of the
   Office of Documents and Administrative Issuances prior to submission for
   publication.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 9855, 9859 (May 4, 1979); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 4091, 4095 (September 18,
   1981); and Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 271, 275 (January 9, 2009).
