                                  DC REGULATIONS

D.C. REGISTER[COLON] PUBLICATION POLICY (§ 1-305)

305.1. The Office of Documents and Administrative Issuances shall publish
   electronically a weekly serial publication called the District of Columbia
   Register, which shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Each resolution adopted by the Council and each act adopted by the Council
   and approved by the Mayor, enacted without mayoral approval, or enacted by the
   override of a mayoral veto;
   
   
   
   (b)	Each final or emergency rule, regulation, or other document required by
   law to be codified in the D.C. Municipal Regulations;
   
   
   
   (c)	Each notice of proposed rulemaking or intent to adopt the contents of any
   other document required to be codified in the D.C. Municipal Regulations.
   
   
   
   (d)	Each notice of public hearing issued by the Council or an agency; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Other documents accepted for publications pursuant to §§305.6, 305.7, or
   305.8.

   305.2. Documents required or authorized to be published in the D.C. Register
   shall be published as promptly after submission as possible within limitations
   imposed by considerations of accuracy, and substantial compliance with the
   publication standards set forth in this chapter.

   305.3. In prescribing rules governing headings, notice format, effective
   dates, authority citations, and other matters of form, the Office of Documents
   and Administrative Issuances shall not affect the validity of any document
   that is filed and published under the law.

   305.4. The D.C. Register serves as the ongoing supplement to the D. C.
   Municipal Regulations. Each document that is subject to codification in the
   DCMR and published in the D.C. Register shall be cross-referenced to the DCMR.

   305.5. Each rulemaking document submitted to the Office of Documents and
   Administrative Issuances for publication in the D.C. Register must comply
   fully with the format, style, and other requirements established for the D.C.
   Municipal Regulations.

   305.6. The following documents are required to be submitted to the Office of
   Documents and Administrative Issuances for publication in the D.C. Register:
   
   
   
   (a)	Each act and resolution of the Council of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	Each notice of public hearing;
   
   
   
   (c)	Each notice of proposed, final, or emergency rulemaking;
   
   
   
   (d)	All administrative issuances of the Mayor, including orders and memoranda;
   
   
   
   (e)	Each document having general applicability and legal effect; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Other documents required by law to be published in the Register.

   305.7. The Administrator of Documents is authorized to publish the following
   documents in the D.C. Register:
   
   
   
   (a)	Documents requested to be published by the Chairperson of the Council or
   the Chairperson&#8217;s designee;
   
   
   
   (b)	Documents requested to be published by the Joint Committee on Judicial
   Administration in the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (c)	Information on changes in the organization of the government of the
   District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (d)	Notices of public hearings not required by law or regulation to be
   published in the D.C. Register; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Documents requested to be published by the Mayor of the District of
   Columbia.

   305.8. Whenever the Administrator determines that the publication of a
   document not required by §305.6 or authorized by §305.7 would be of general
   public interest, the Administrator may permit the document to be published in
   the D.C. Register.

   305.9. The following documents are generally not authorized to be published in
   the Register, except as provided by §305.8:
   
   
   
   (a)	Proclamations or other ceremonial documents;
   
   
   
   (b)	Notices of meetings or other activities;
   
   
   
   (c)	Correspondence, memoranda, or internal agency documents;
   
   
   
   (d)	Press releases, news items, commentary, or editorials;
   
   
   
   (e)	Adjudicatory notices, opinions, or orders;
   
   
   
   (f)	Judicial Declaratory Orders
   
   
   
   (g)	Resolutions, petitions, or recommendations submitted for consideration by
   the Council, Mayor, or an agency; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Employment information, job announcements, or position descriptions.

   305.10. Without prejudice to any other form of citation, the D.C. Register
   shall be cited by volume and page number, and the short form “DCR” shall
   be used in the citation. The date of publication of the weekly edition should
   also generally be included in the citation. For example, material which begins
   on page 8264 of volume 54 of the D.C. Register (published on August 24, 2007)
   should be cited “54 DCR 8264 (August 24, 2007).”

   305.11. Each document published in the D.C. Register shall be placed under one
   of the following table of contents categories, as indicated:
   
   
   
   (a)	COUNCIL OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA &#8211; Which shall contain all
   resolutions and approved acts of the Council, mayoral vetoes of Council acts,
   notices of D.C. Law numbers assigned, notices of filing and intent to consider
   legislation, notices of public hearings, and other documents requested to be
   published by the Chairperson;
   
   
   
   (b)	PUBLIC HEARINGS &#8211; Which shall contain all notices of public hearings
   issued by an agency or authorized for publication under §305.7(c);
   
   
   
   (c)	FINAL RULEMAKING &#8211; Which shall contain all final rules, notices of
   final rulemaking action, and documents having general applicability and legal
   effect;
   
   
   
   (d)	PROPOSED RULEMAKING &#8211; Which shall contain all notices of intent to
   adopt rules or documents of general applicability and legal effect, except
   combined notices pursuant to §305.11(e);
   
   
   
   (e)	EMERGENCY RULEMAKING &#8211; Which shall contain all notices of emergency
   rulemaking and combined notices of emergency and proposed rulemaking; and
   
   
   
   (f)	NOTICES AND INFORMATION &#8211; Which shall contain all other documents
   authorized for publication under §§305.7 or 305.8.
   
   
   
   (g)	ADMINISTRATIVE ISSUANCES- Which shall contain all Mayor’s Orders,
   Mayor’s Memorandum, and Mayor’s Administrative Instructions.

   305.12. The Office of Documents and Administrative Issuances will publish
   annually a cumulative index of all matters published in the D.C. Register
   during the year. The complete index for each volume will also be published on
   a calendar year basis.

   305.13. Beginning with Volume 27, in January 1980, complete volumes of the
   D.C. Register shall be published on a calendar year basis.1

   305.14. The certification and publication of a document in the D.C. Register
   or D.C. Municipal Regulations (DCMR) creates a rebuttable legal presumption
   that the document was duly issued, adopted, prescribed, or enacted, and that
   all requirements of the Documents Act and the Administrative Procedure Act
   have been met.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 9855, 9860 (May 4, 1979); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 4091, 4096-4098 (September 18,
   1981); and Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 271, 276 (January 9, 2009).
   
   
   
   1 Volume 26 of the D.C. Register is a short volume; beginning July 1, 1979,
   and ending December 31, 1979.
