                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY RULEMAKING NOTICES (§ 1-311)

311.1. A document that is submitted for publication as emergency rulemaking,
   including any document that purports to adopt a new rule on an emergency basis
   or amend or repeal an existing rule on an emergency basis, shall be filed in
   accordance with the provisions of this section, in addition to other
   applicable provisions of this chapter.

   311.2. A notice of emergency rulemaking may be combined with a notice of
   proposed rulemaking. Combined notices must meet the requirements of this
   section and the requirements of §309.

   311.3. The heading on each emergency rulemaking document shall state, in bold
   type or upper case print, the name of the agency promulgating the rule and the
   phrase “NOTICE OF EMERGENCY RULEMAKING.” A combined notice of emergency
   and proposed rulemaking shall use the phrase “NOTICE OF EMERGENCY AND
   PROPOSED RULEMAKING.”

   311.4. The text of the emergency rule(s) shall be preceded by a notice that
   shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the promulgating official or body authorized to issue rules;
   
   
   
   (b)	The date of adoption of the emergency rule(s) and the effective date of
   the rule(s);
   
   
   
   (c)	A citation to an existing rule that is being amended or repealed or a
   temporary citation for a new rule;
   
   
   
   (d)	A brief description or title of the rule(s);
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement giving the justification for emergency rulemaking action which
   clearly explains why the action is necessary for the immediate preservation of
   the public peace, health, safety, welfare, or morals;
   
   
   
   (f)	The date of expiration of the emergency rule(s); and
   
   
   
   (g)	If the notice is for combined emergency and proposed rulemaking, it shall
   include the language required by §309.3, and the requirements of §309.4 must
   be met by the addition of the proper notice to the end of the text of the
   emergency and proposed rule(s)

   311.5. The one hundred twenty (120) day maximum effective period for emergency
   rules begins on the date of adoption of the rules. A shorter period of
   effectiveness may be stated in the notice. Emergency rules may take effect on
   the date of adoption, on the date of publication in the D.C. Register, or on
   another date after adoption.

   311.6. A combined Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking shall state that
   the rule(s) will expire one hundred twenty (120) days after adoption (or a
   shorter stated period) or upon publication of final rules, whichever occurs
   first.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 9855, 9871 (May 4, 1979); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 4091, 4107 (September 18,
   1981); and as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 271, 287
   (January 9, 2009).
