                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRACTICE OF MARRIAGE AND FAMILY THERAPY BY STUDENTS, GRADUATES AND FIRST-TIME
APPLICANTS (ยง 17-7712)

7712.1. This section shall apply to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Students enrolled in recognized schools or colleges as candidates for a
   degree in marriage and family therapy, or enrolled in a college course
   pertaining to marriage and family therapy;
   
   
   
   (b)	Applicants for a license whose application for a license in the District
   of Columbia is pending; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Post graduates who are meeting the experiential requirements of section
   7703.

   7712.2. A student, graduate or applicant may perform actions which require a
   license as a marriage and family therapist only in accordance with the Act and
   this section.

   7712.3. A first-time applicant for a marriage and family therapy license,
   student or graduate may practice marriage and family therapy under the general
   or immediate supervision of a marriage and family therapist licensed in the
   District of Columbia, or under an AAMFT or Board-approved supervisor, while
   the initial application is pending.

   7712.4. A first-time applicant practicing marriage and family therapy pursuant
   to section 7712.1 (b) who fails the national examination administered by the
   Association of Marital and Family Therapy Regulatory Boards shall not
   thereafter continue to practice marriage and family therapy until such time as
   a marriage and family therapy license is duly issued to that individual.

   7712.5. A marriage and family therapist supervising a student, graduate or
   applicant shall be responsible for the actions performed by the student or
   applicant during the time of the supervision and is subject to disciplinary
   action for any violation of the Act or this chapter by the person supervised.

   7712.6. A supervisor shall review and co-sign any documentation written by a
   marriage and family student, graduate or applicant for a marriage and family
   therapy license.

   7712.7. A supervisor shall not supervise more than five (5) graduates,
   students, or first-time applicants at any one time.

   7712.8. The Board may deny an application for a license from an applicant who
   is found to have violated the Act or this chapter.

   7712.9. An unlicensed marriage and family therapist shall identify himself or
   herself as such at all times when practicing marriage and family therapy.

   7712.10. An unlicensed marriage and family therapist shall not receive
   compensation of any nature as a marriage and family therapist, either directly
   or indirectly from a client, except for a salary from an employer based on
   hours worked under supervision.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 7845 (September
   29, 2006); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8247 (August 24,
   2007).
