                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXEMPTIONS (ยง 3-2006)

2006.1. No requested record shall be withheld from inspections or copying
   unless both of the following criteria apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	It comes within one of the classes of records exempted by D.C. Law 1-96;
   and
   
   
   
   (b)	There is need in the public interest to withhold it.

   2006.2. The classes of records authorized to be exempted from disclosure are
   those which concern matters that are of the following nature:
   
   
   
   (a)	Trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from
   outside the government, to the extent that disclosure would result in
   substantial harm to the competitive position of the person from whom the
   information was obtained;
   
   
   
   (b)	Information of a personal nature where the public disclosure thereof would
   constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
   
   
   
   (c)	Investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, but only to
   the extent that the production of those records would do the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Interfere with enforcement proceedings;
   
   
   
   (2)	Deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or impartial adjudication;
   
   
   
   (3)	Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
   
   
   
   (4)	Disclosure the identity of a confidential source and, in the case of a
   record compiled by a law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal
   investigation, or by an agency conducting a lawful national security
   intelligence investigation, confidential information furnished only by the
   confidential source;
   
   
   
   (5)	Disclose investigative techniques and procedures not generally known
   outside the government; or
   
   
   
   (6)	Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel;
   
   
   
   (d)	Inter-agency or intra-agency memoranda or letter which would not be
   available by law to a party other than an agency in litigation with the Board;
   
   
   
   (e)	Test questions and answers to be used in future license, employment, or
   academic examinations, but not previously administered examinations or answers
   to questions thereon;
   
   
   
   (f)	Information specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than
   this section), provided that the statute does one of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in a manner as to
   leave no discretion on the issue; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular
   types of matters to be withheld; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Information specifically authorized by Federal law under criteria
   established by a Presidential Executive Order to be kept secret in the
   interest of national defense or foreign policy which is in fact properly
   classified pursuant to that Executive Order.

   2006.3. Any reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be provided to any
   person requesting the record after deletion of those portions which are exempt
   under this section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 46 D.C. Reg. 1191, 1193-94 (February
   12, 1999).
