                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRE-HEARING PROCEDURES (ยง 28-703)

703.1. CCC defendants charged with a Class I Infraction shall be immediately
   remanded to the CDF.

   703.2. Within twenty-four (24) hours (excluding weekends and holidays) of the
   defendant&#8217;s remand to the CDF an affidavit stating the basis for the
   defendant&#8217;s remand shall be filed by the CCC staff with the appropriate
   judicial officer along with a request for an order that the defendant be
   brought before court without unnecessary delay.

   703.3. Copies of the affidavit shall be sent by the CCC staff to the Pretrial
   Services Agency and the Criminal Justice Act Office for forwarding to defense
   counsel and the U.S. Attorney&#8217;s Office.

   703.4. Upon reasonable belief of a staff member that a CCC defendant has
   committed a Class II or Class III Infraction, the CCC staff member may file a
   disciplinary report. Disciplinary reports must be delivered, hand-carried if
   reasonably possible, by the reporting staff member or designee to the Shift
   Supervisor.

   703.5. The Shift Supervisor shall be responsible for reviewing, signing and
   forwarding disciplinary reports to the Disciplinary Team.

   703.6. If the Shift Supervisor believes the report is not sufficiently clear,
   or that the severity level of the alleged misconduct is inappropriate, he/she
   shall direct, in writing, that the reporting staff member rewrite the report.
   The order by the Shift Supervisor to rewrite a disciplinary report shall be
   made a part of the official record.

   703.7. Absent extenuating circumstances, disciplinary reports are to be
   completed within twenty-four (24) hours of the reporting staff person becoming
   aware of the infraction.

   703.8. Any extenuating circumstances that prohibit the timely submission of a
   disciplinary report shall be noted in the report. Absent extenuating
   circumstances, a disciplinary report shall be submitted to the Disciplinary
   Team within seventy-two (72) hours after the reporting staff person becomes
   aware of an infraction.

   703.9. Each disciplinary report shall include the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Defendant&#8217;s name and DCDC number;
   
   
   
   (b)	The specific rule alleged to have been violated and a statement of the
   charges;
   
   
   
   (c)	Names of witnesses to the incident;
   
   
   
   (d)	Date, time and location of the alleged infraction;
   
   
   
   (e)	Facts surrounding the incident sufficient to answer the questions of who,
   what, when, where, how and why;
   
   
   
   (f)	Disposition of any confiscated property;
   
   
   
   (g)	Any action taken including confiscation of property, the seizure of
   contraband, or the placing of defendant of administrative hold;
   
   
   
   (h)	Supplementary reports of witnesses and/or other involved CCC staff; and
   
   
   
   (i)	The signature of the reporting staff person.

   703.10. A copy of the disciplinary report is to be provided to the subject
   defendant within twenty-four (24) hours of when the report is approved by the
   Shift Supervisor, absent any extenuating circumstances.

   703.11. In the event that a defendant&#8217;s property is confiscated due to a
   rule violation, the staff member who confiscates the property shall complete a
   property inventory form.

   703.12. Immediately following the confiscation the defendant/owner shall sign
   and receive a copy of the inventory form.

   703.13. A copy of the inventory form shall also be placed with the property.
   The staff person executing the property inventory form shall note the
   condition of the property.

   703.14. In the event that the defendant/owner is not present when the property
   is confiscated, two staff members shall conduct the inventory and both shall
   sign the property inventory form.

   703.15. If the property is returned to the defendant/owner, he/she shall
   verify that the property has not been altered or damaged, sign the inventory
   form upon receipt of the property, and be provided a copy of the form.

   703.16. When a violation is reported for which an investigation is deemed
   necessary, the investigation shall begin within twenty-four (24) hours of the
   time that the violation is reported. The investigation is to be completed
   without unreasonable delay.

   703.17. The investigator shall normally be a supervisor. The investigating
   supervisor may seek the assistance of another staff member as long as that
   staff member is not the individual who reported the incident or is not a
   witness to the incident. Where appropriate, the CCC staff may seek the
   assistance of the Metropolitan Police Department or other law enforcement
   agencies in the investigation of the incident.

   703.18. Any physical item identified as evidence in connection with any
   alleged misconduct or violation is to be seized by CCC staff. Each seized item
   must be accompanied by a correctly completed evidence report.

   703.19. Items of physical evidence shall be picked up daily by the Shift
   Supervisor and securely maintained in the evidence lockers. Evidence lockers
   are to be maintained under the control of CCC supervisory staff.

   703.20. To maintain a clear chain of custody, the time and date that evidence
   passes from the control of one person to another is to be documented.

   703.21. When the evidence is no longer needed, it shall be disposed of in
   accordance with Department of Corrections policy.

   703.22. The CCC Shift Supervisor, or his/her designee, is responsible for
   conducting periodic audits of evidence storage lockers to ensure compliance
   with policies and procedures for the handling of evidence.

   703.23. The CCC Administrator/Director or Shift Supervisor may place a
   defendant on administrative hold within the CCC if he/she determines that
   doing so is necessary to ensure the integrity of an investigation of any
   incident. Except in extenuating circumstances, a pre-hearing administrative
   hold should not exceed twenty-four (24) hours, excluding weekdays and
   holidays.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 4558, 4561-64 (May 17, 2002).
