                                  DC REGULATIONS

CODE OF INFRACTIONS (ยง 28-702)

702.1. Class I Infractions constitute misconduct that violates the law or
   otherwise jeopardizes the safe and secure operation of the CCC.

   702.2. Any CCC defendant charged with one (1) or more Class I Infractions
   shall be immediately remanded to the CDF pending judicial intervention and
   review.

   702.3. An affidavit stating the basis for the defendant&#8217;s remand shall
   be prepared and filed by the CCC staff with the appropriate judicial officer
   within twenty-four (24) hours (excluding weekends and holidays) along with a
   request for the removal of the defendant from the work release program.

   702.4. Copies of all affidavits shall be submitted by the CCC staff to the
   Pretrial Services Agency and the Criminal Justice Act (CJA) Office for
   forwarding to defense counsel and the U.S. Attorney&#8217;s Office.

   702.5. The following are Class I Infractions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Abscondance. Abscondance is the failure of a pretrial CCC defendant,
   conditionally released pursuant to D.C. Official Code ยง 23-1321(c)(1)(B)(xi),
   to return to his/her assigned CCC after authorized release into the community,
   or who leaves the CCC without authorization. The failure to return after an
   authorized release or an unauthorized absence is a violation of the conditions
   of release and may result in a prosecution for contempt of court pursuant to
   D.C. Official Code ยง 23-1329, or escape under D.C. Official Code ยง 22-2601.
   
   
   
   (b)	Arrest on an escape warrant or a voluntary return to a CCC after an escape
   warrant has been issued.
   
   
   
   (c)	Conduct that constitutes the basis for a new felony or misdemeanor charge
   (including new charges or conduct that is observed by the CCC staff and is
   referred for prosecution). Criminal conduct that occurs in a CCC may be
   referred to the Metropolitan Police Department (MPD), which has statutory
   authority to arrest, and the matter may be forwarded two the U.S.
   Attorney&#8217;s Office for prosecution.
   
   
   
   (d)	Threatening another person within the CCC with bodily harm or with any
   offense against his/her person or family.
   
   
   
   (e)	Assaulting another person, fighting, or interfering with CCC security.
   
   
   
   (f)	Possession, manufacture, or introduction into the CCC of a pistol,
   firearm, imitation pistol or firearm, other weapons, sharpened instruments
   capable of being used as a weapon, knife, dangerous chemicals, explosives,
   ammunition, or any tool that can be used as a weapon capable of inflicting
   serious bodily harm to others.
   
   
   
   (g)	Intentional destruction of any property within the CCC.
   
   
   
   (h)	Possession, manufacture, introduction or use in the CCC of any narcotic,
   marijuana, intoxicant, medication, drug or drug related paraphernalia not
   prescribed for the defendant by a doctor and/or authorized medical staff.
   
   
   
   (i)	Engaging in sexual acts with others in the CCC or on the CCC premises.
   
   
   
   (j)	Second or subsequent Class II Infractions may result in a Class I
   violation.
   
   
   
   (k)	If a defendant charged with a Class II Infraction is reasonably believed
   to present a high risk of danger to self or others, or presents a risk of
   flight, that defendant may be temporarily remanded to the CDF. The CCC
   Administrator/Director or designee must approve any such temporary remand to
   the CDF. An affidavit stating the basis for the defendant&#8217;s remand, and
   request that the defendant be brought before the court without unnecessary
   delay, shall be prepared by the CCC Administrator/Director or designee and
   filed within twenty-four (24) hours (excluding holidays and weekends) of the
   defendant&#8217;s remand to the CDF.

   702.6. Class II Infractions constitute misconduct that jeopardizes the
   security and/or orderly operation of the CCC. The CCC Disciplinary Team is
   empowered to impose appropriate administrative sanctions when a charged Class
   II Infraction is sustained. The conduct listed below constitutes infractions
   under this section:
   
   
   
   (a)	Smoking where prohibited.
   
   
   
   (b)	Possession of materials to manufacture alcoholic beverages.
   
   
   
   (c)	Violation of curfew (defendants return to the CCC after curfew but before
   a warrant for escape is issued).
   
   
   
   (d)	Gambling, conducting a gambling operation or possession of gambling
   paraphernalia, including betting pools, illegal lotteries, or other games of
   chance.
   
   
   
   (e)	Refusal to obey an order from CCC staff.
   
   
   
   (f)	Using abusive, threatening or obscene language to any staff person.
   
   
   
   (g)	Failure to report a new arrest.
   
   
   
   (h)	Being in an unauthorized area without permission from a CCC staff person.
   
   
   
   (i)	Wearing or possessing a disguise or mask.
   
   
   
   (j)	Indecent exposure.
   
   
   
   (k)	Signing in or out of the CCC under false pretenses.
   
   
   
   (l)	Failure on the part of any defendant to abide by a mutually agreed upon
   program contract (e.g., drug program, education program or work schedule).
   
   
   
   (m)	Failure to pay subsistence fees to the CCC.
   
   
   
   (n)	Disruption of CCC operations.
   
   
   
   (o)	Testing positive for drugs or alcohol.
   
   
   
   (p)	Conspiracy to commit any misconduct listed as a Class II Infraction.

   702.7. Class III Infractions constitute misconduct that does not jeopardize
   the security, safety or orderly operation of the CCC, but could be considered
   as offensive or inappropriate. Class III Infractions are generally violations
   of rules, regulations or policies that are not specifically listed, or are not
   the equivalent of Class I or Class II Infractions, but are guidelines for
   appropriate behavior. For example, lying to a CCC staff person is a Class III
   Infraction. Class III Infractions are the least severe infractions. The CCC
   Disciplinary Team is empowered to impose administrative sanctions when a
   charged Class III Infraction is sustained.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 4558, 4559-61 (May 17, 2002).
