                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXHIBITS AND OTHER DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE (ยง 31-348)

348.1. When written exhibits are offered in evidence, one (1) copy shall be
   furnished to each of the parties at the hearing unless the parties have been
   furnished previously with copies or the Chairperson directs otherwise.

   348.2. If the Chairperson has not fixed a time for the exchange of exhibits,
   the parties shall exchange copies of exhibits at the earliest practical time,
   preferably before the hearing or, at the latest, at the commencement of the
   hearing.

   348.3. At his or her discretion, the Chairperson may permit a party to
   withdraw original documents offered in evidence and substitute true copies.

   348.4. Documentary evidence may be received in the form of copies or excerpts
   if the original is not available.

   348.5. Upon request, parties shall be given an opportunity to compare the copy
   with the original when available.

   348.6. When relevant and material matter offered in evidence by any party is
   embraced in a book, paper, or document containing other matter not material or
   relevant, the party offering the same shall plainly designate the matter so
   offered. The immaterial and irrelevant parts shall be excluded and shall be
   segregated insofar as is practicable.

   348.7. If the Chairperson so directs, the relevant or material matter may be
   read into the record, or, if the Chairperson so directs, a true copy of such
   matter, in proper form, shall be received as an exhibit, and like copies shall
   be delivered by the party offering the same to opposing parties or to their
   attorneys appearing at the hearing, who shall be afforded an opportunity to
   examine the book, paper, or document, and to offer in evidence in like manner
   other portions thereof.

   348.8. In case any portion of the record in any other proceeding or civil or
   criminal action is offered in evidence, a true copy of such portion shall be
   presented for the record in the form of an exhibit unless one of the following
   occurs:
   
   
   
   (a)	The party offering the same agrees unconditionally to supply the copies
   later, or when required by the Chairperson;
   
   
   
   (b)	The parties represented at the hearing stipulate upon the record that such
   portion may be incorporated by reference; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The Chairperson directs the incorporation by reference or waives the above
   requirement with the consent of the parties.

   348.9. No document or other writing shall be accepted for the record after the
   close of the hearing, except in accordance with an agreement of the parties
   and the consent of the Chairperson.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6751, 6783 (October 23, 1987).
