                                  DC REGULATIONS

INVESTIGATIONS (ยง 31-356)

356.1. The Panel may hold investigative hearings on any aspect of taxicab
   operations.

   356.2. In order to use subpoenas to obtain testimony or documents, the Panel
   shall adopt a resolution authorizing an investigation by the Panel or a
   committee thereof.

   356.3. Resolutions authorizing investigations under this section must
   delineate the purpose of the investigation and the subject matter to be
   investigated to afford witnesses adequate notice of the scope of the inquiry.

   356.4. The Secretary shall publish a notice of each investigation authorized
   under ยง 356.2, which shall include a copy or description of the resolution
   authorizing the investigation and the date it was filed with the Secretary.

   356.5. Within ninety (90) days of concluding an investigation, under this
   section, the Panel or committee shall submit to the Commission the results of
   its investigation unless the Commission, by majority vote of the members
   present and voting, extends this time limit

   356.6. The Panel, by a majority of the members present and voting, may vote
   not to release all or part of its report. The Commission by a majority of
   members present and voting, may direct the Panel to release its report under
   terms that the Commission sets.

   356.7. A witness may be affirmed or sworn to give truthful testimony.

   356.8. Any person authorized by law may issue an oath or affirmation to a
   witness.

   356.9. The Panel or committee may authorize a member, committee staff, or
   counsel advising the Panel or committee to take the testimony of witnesses by
   oral or written depositions.

   356.10. The Panel may subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and
   the production of documents and other tangible items at meetings, hearings,
   and depositions in connection with an investigation.

   356.11. Subpoenas shall be served personally on the witness or his or her
   designated agent in one (1) of the following ways, which may be attempted
   concurrently or successively:
   
   
   
   (a)	By a special process server, at least eighteen (18) years of age,
   designated by the Panel or committee from among the staff appointed by the
   Chairperson who are not directly involved in the investigation; or
   
   
   
   (b)	By a special process server, at least eighteen (18) years of age, engaged
   by the Panel or committee for this purpose.

   356.12. The Panel or hearing committee may refer to the Commission any case of
   contumacy by any person subpoenaed to appear before the investigative hearing
   panel. The Commission by resolution, may refer any case of contumacy by any
   person subpoenaed by the Panel or a committee to the Superior Court of the
   District of Columbia.

   356.13. Any witness has the right to refuse to answer any question which might
   tend to incriminate him or her by claiming his or her Fifth Amendment
   privilege against self-incrimination, other Constitutional privileges or
   statutory or common law privileges recognized in the courts of the District of
   Columbia.

   356.14. If a witness asserts a privilege, the Chairperson shall inquire into
   the witness&#8217; reasons for claiming the privilege. If the Chairperson
   determines that the claim of privileges is not warranted, he or she shall
   direct the witness to answer the question. A witness&#8217; continued claim of
   privilege in the face of an order by the presiding member to answer a specific
   question constitutes contumacy by the witness.

   356.15. Where a witness under subpoena is not represented by counsel, the
   presiding member shall advise the witness of his or her privilege against self
   incrimination.

   356.16. A witness under subpoena is entitled to receive, at the cost of
   producing it, a written transcript or a transcription of his or her testimony
   in connection with an investigation.

   356.17. Any person who is the subject of an investigation authorized under ยง
   356.2 may submit written questions for the cross-examination of other
   witnesses at public hearings called by the Panel or the committee. With the
   consent of the members present and voting, those questions may be put to the
   witness by any member, by any authorized staff member, or by counsel advising
   the Panel or committee.

   356.18. Any person, who is named or specifically identified in connection with
   an investigation and who believes that the testimony or other evidence or
   comment by a member of the Panel or committee or its staff does not comport
   with the truth, may file a sworn statement of facts relevant to the testimony
   or other evidence or comment complained of.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6751, 6792 (October 23, 1987).
