                                  DC REGULATIONS

AMENDMENTS (ยง 31-358)

358.1. Whenever the Chairperson or the Panel proposes to adopt, amend, or
   repeal a rule, any interested party or parties may submit data or views on the
   action proposed in the form of a written petition.

   358.2. Any interested party or parties may petition in writing to the
   Chairperson for the adoption, repeal, or amendment of rules.

   358.3. Upon receipt, the Chairperson may refer a petition to the staff of the
   Office with a request for a written report on the advisability of any action
   to be taken upon the petition. The staff shall promptly submit a report to the
   Chairperson who shall transmit it to the Panel for its consideration.

   358.4. If the Panel determines that the petition discloses sufficient reasons
   in support of the proposals therein to justify the institution of rulemaking,
   an appropriate notice thereof will be issued to all petitioners and the public
   that proposed rulemaking will be held on the matter.

   358.5. If the Panel determine that the petition does not show sufficient
   grounds to justify rulemaking procedures, the Chairperson shall notify the
   petitioner together with the grounds for denial.

   358.6. The Panel may order that a public hearing be held prior to the
   adoption, amendment, or repeal of a rule in the manner prescribed in this
   chapter, insofar as the procedures are applicable.

   358.7. Amendments to this chapter may be adopted at any duly convened meeting
   of the Panel by a majority vote of those present and voting.

   358.8. Notice of the proposed amendments shall be provided to all members of
   the Panel at least thirty (30) days in advance of the meeting at which they
   will be considered unless a majority of the members of the Panel waive the
   notice.

   358.9. Final rulemaking action to amend this chapter, following publication in
   the D.C. Register of a thirty (30) day notice of proposed rulemaking and
   public hearing, may be taken by a majority of the members of the Panel present
   and voting.

   358.10. The Chairperson shall file any rule, amendment, or repeal thereof
   approved by the Panel to the Office of Documents.

   358.11. If any rule is adopted pursuant to proceedings initiated by petition
   of any interested party, a copy of the rule shall be delivered to such party.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6751, 6794 (October 23, 1987).
