                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRE-HEARING CONFERENCE (ยง 31-341)

341.1. Prior to any hearing, the Chairperson may give notice of a pre-hearing
   conference to all parties to the proceeding and to other persons who appear to
   have an interest in the proceeding.

   341.2. The purpose of a pre-hearing conference is to define and simplify the
   issues and the scope of the proceeding; to secure statements of the positions
   of the parties with respect thereto and amendments to the pleadings in
   conformity therewith; to schedule the exchange of exhibits before the date set
   for hearing; and to arrive at agreements that will aid in the conduct and
   disposition of the proceeding.

   341.3. Prehearing conference agreements may include, but are not limited to,
   the following matters:
   
   
   
   (a)	Matters the hearing panel can consider without necessity of proof;
   
   
   
   (b)	Admissions of fact and of the genuineness of documents;
   
   
   
   (c)	Requests for documents;
   
   
   
   (d)	Admissibility of evidence;
   
   
   
   (e)	Limitation of the number of witnesses;
   
   
   
   (f)	Reduction of oral testimony to written form;
   
   
   
   (g)	Review of the file created by the Office, if any;
   
   
   
   (h)	Procedures to be followed at the hearing; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Disposition of all pending motions.

   341.4. The Chairperson may require further conference, or responsive
   pleadings, or both.

   341.5. If a party refuses to produce documents requested by another party at
   the conference, the Chairperson may compel the production of the documents
   prior to hearing by subpoena issued in accordance with ยง 337, as though at a
   hearing.

   341.6. The Chairperson shall issue a report of pre-hearing conference,
   defining the issues, specifying a schedule for the exchange of exhibits and
   rebuttal exhibits, the date of hearing, and specifying a time for the filing
   of objections to the report.

   341.7. The report shall be served upon all parties to the proceeding and any
   person who appeared at the conference.

   341.8. Objections to the report may be filed by any interested person within
   the time specified in the report.

   341.9. The Chairperson may revise his or her report in the light of the
   objections presented. Any revised report shall be served upon the same persons
   and parties as was the original report.

   341.10. The report (or revised report) shall constitute the official account
   of the conference and shall control the subsequent course of the proceeding;
   provided, that it may be reconsidered and modified at any time to protect the
   public interest or to prevent injustice.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6751, 6776 (October 23, 1987).
