                                  DC REGULATIONS

REHEARING OR RECONSIDERATION (ยง 31-354)

354.1. A final decision and order in an individual proceeding may be subject
   to rehearing or reconsideration by the hearing panel within ten (10) days from
   the date of its entry upon motion by a party or on motion of the Chairperson.

   354.2. The grounds for rehearing or reconsideration shall be one or more of
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Newly discovered or newly available evidence relevant to the issues;
   
   
   
   (b)	Need for additional evidence to develop adequately the facts essential to
   proper decision;
   
   
   
   (c)	Probable error committed by the Chairperson or hearing panel in the
   proceeding or in its decision which would be grounds for reversal on judicial
   review of the decision;
   
   
   
   (d)	Need for further consideration of the issues and the evidence in the
   public interest; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A showing that issues not previously considered ought to be examined in
   order properly to dispose of the matter.

   354.3. The order of the Chairperson on behalf of the hearing panel granting
   rehearing or reconsideration or the motion of the party therefor, shall set
   forth the grounds which justify that action.

   354.4. Nothing in this section shall prevent rehearing or reconsideration of a
   matter by any hearing panel in accordance with other statutory provisions
   applicable to the Commission, Panel, or Office, or, at any time, on the ground
   of fraud practiced by the prevailing party or of procurement of the order by
   perjured testimony or fictitious testimony.

   354.5. The hearing shall be confined to those grounds upon which the rehearing
   or reconsideration was ordered.

   354.6. If an application for rehearing is timely filed, the period within
   which judicial review must be brought under the Administrative Procedure Act
   shall run from the final disposition of the application.

   354.7. A motion for rehearing or reconsideration shall not operate as a stay
   of any order of suspension or revocation of a license or registration which
   has become final by decision of the hearing panel following the original
   hearing.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6751, 6790 (October 23, 1987).
