                                  DC REGULATIONS

EVIDENCE[COLON] GENERAL PROVISIONS (ยง 31-347)

347.1. Evidence presented at a hearing shall be limited to material evidence
   relevant to the issues as drawn by the pleadings or other documents filed in
   the case, subject to later modifications of the issues which may be necessary
   to prevent injustice.

   347.2. Irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence shall be
   excluded.

   347.3. The rules of evidence applied in the hearing or review shall include
   exclusion of evidence whether hearsay or otherwise which does not contain
   facts of probative value or is not relevant to the issues to be decided.

   347.4. No license shall be suspended or revoked solely on the basis of hearsay
   evidence.

   347.5. Objections to the admission or exclusion of evidence shall be in short
   form, stating the grounds of objections relied upon.

   347.6. Exceptions to the rulings of the Chairperson made during the course of
   a hearing are unnecessary. For all purposes for which an exception otherwise
   would be taken, it shall be sufficient that a party, at the time the ruling of
   the Chairperson is made or sought do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Make known the action he or she desires the Chairperson to take; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Make known his or her objection to an action taken, and the grounds for
   his or her objection.

   347.7. Any offer of proof made in connection with an objection taken to any
   ruling of the Chairperson rejecting or excluding proffered oral testimony
   shall consist of a statement of the substance of the evidence which a party or
   his or her counsel contends would be adduced by such testimony.

   347.8. If the excluded evidence consists of evidence in documentary or written
   form or of references to documents or records, a copy of the evidence shall be
   marked for identification and shall constitute the offer of proof.

   347.9. The Chairperson may exclude testimony under the rules of privilege
   recognized by decisions of the courts of the District of Columbia or as
   provided by law including, but not limited to, communications between attorney
   and client, physician and patient, and records and files of any official or
   agency of government which, by statute or otherwise, are recognized as
   confidential.

   347.10. No greater exclusionary effect shall be given any such rule or
   privilege than would apply in any action in a court of the District of
   Columbia.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6751, 6782 (October 23, 1987).
