                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT OF HEARINGS (§ 31-345)

345.1. Hearings shall be open to the parties and to such other persons as the
   Chairperson deems necessary or proper. At the start of each hearing, the
   complaint and answer referred to in §§ 801.2 and 801.3, may be read into the
   record.

   345.2. If a pre-hearing conference has not been held pursuant to § 341,
   parties shall submit a brief summary of their contentions, a list of witnesses
   to be called, proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law in complex
   cases, and other pertinent information which may be required by the
   Chairperson. In the absence of counsel, the Chairperson may waive the
   requirements of this subsection or permit the information to be orally
   presented before the Chairperson and the hearing panel.

   345.3. If the Chairperson believes that there is relevant and material
   evidence available which has not been presented at the hearing, the
   Chairperson may adjourn the hearing, or, at any time prior to the mailing of
   notice of the decision, reopen the hearing for the receipt of such evidence.

   345.4. The order in which evidence and allegations shall be presented and the
   procedure at the hearing generally, except as otherwise provided in this
   chapter shall be at the discretion of the Chairperson and of such nature as to
   afford the parties a reasonable opportunity for a fair hearing and comport
   with the burden of proof.

   345.5. Unless required for the disposition of ex parte matters authorized by
   law, the Chairperson and the hearing panel shall not communicate, directly or
   indirectly, in connection with any issue of fact, with any person or party,
   not, in connection with any issue of law, with any party or his or her
   attorney except upon notice and opportunity for all parties to participate.

   345.6. The Chairperson and the hearing panel shall not communicate concerning
   a matter under consideration with the staff of the Office during the
   adjudicatory phase of the proceedings.

   345.7. A hearing scheduled shall not be delayed by a motion for a continuance
   unless the motion is made a least five (5) working days before the time at
   which the hearing is scheduled to be held, and, in the opinion of the hearing
   panel, sets forth good and sufficient cause for a continuance. The hearing
   panel may, in its discretion, continue a hearing in the unavoidable and
   justifiable absence of a complaining witness. The hearing panel may consider
   any inconvenience to the respondent or other witnesses which may result from a
   continuance, and shall refrain from the granting of multiple continuances in a
   particular matter. Counsel may seek a continuance for parties and witnesses.

   345.8. At the time the hearing panel convenes, all cases scheduled at that
   time shall be called by the clerk. Requests for continuances shall be
   considered and resolved. If a party against whom action is to be taken is not
   present, the hearing panel may enter a default judgment against the person. If
   the complaining party is not present at the call of the case, an order of
   dismissal may be entered.

   345.9. Conflicting engagements of counsel, absence of counsel, or the
   employment of new counsel shall not be regarded as good and sufficient cause
   for a continuance unless set forth in a motion filed promptly after notice of
   the hearing has been given.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6751, 6780 (October 23, 1987).
