                                  DC REGULATIONS

DECLARATORY ORDERS (ยง 31-355)

355.1. Any person may file a petition with the Chairperson for submission to
   the Panel for a declaratory order with respect to the applicability of any
   rule, order, or statute enforced or administered by the Chairperson, to remove
   any uncertainty or ambiguity in the application of the rule, order, or
   statute, or to terminate a controversy in any case in which a hearing is not
   required by law for its disposition.

   355.2. Two (2) or more persons similarly situated may join in a single
   petition and additional parties may intervene by petition.

   355.3. Upon receipt of a petition, the Chairperson shall refer the petition to
   the Panel. The Panel shall determine the advisability of any action to be
   taken.

   355.4. The Panel may order a hearing to be held before the Panel or a
   committee thereof prior to issuance of any order described in ยง 355.5 or ยง
   355.6.

   355.5. If the Panel determines that the petition discloses sufficient reasons
   in support of the requests therein to justify a declaratory order, the Panel
   shall submit the proposed declaratory order, or a modification thereof,
   accompanied by the findings of fact upon which the recommended order is based,
   to the Secretary for review and to the Corporation Counsel for approval.

   355.6. A petition shall be dismissed with notice to the petitioner stating the
   grounds for the dismissal, if the Panel finds the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The petition involves a hypothetical moot question;
   
   
   
   (b)	The petitioner has no interest within the meaning of the Administrative
   Procedure Act in that the legal rights, duties, or privileges of such
   petitioner will not be substantially affected by the granting or denial of the
   order requested; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The petitioner does not intend to pursue a stated course of action in the
   event of a favorable order by the Panel.

   355.7. If recommended in a case pending before the Corporation Counsel, a
   hearing shall be held to determine any material facts not in the record but
   deemed necessary by the Corporation Counsel for a decision.

   355.8. Hearings shall be held in the manner prescribed in this chapter insofar
   as such procedures are applicable.

   355.9. The Chairperson shall file any declaratory order approved by the Panel
   and the Corporation Counsel, and a copy of the order shall be delivered to any
   petitioner whose name appears in the record.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6751, 6791 (October 23, 1987).
