                                  DC REGULATIONS

HEARING PANELS (§ 31-324)

324.1. Upon the filing of a demand for hearing, the Chairperson shall assign
   the case to a hearing panel. Thereafter, all motions and procedural requests
   shall be addressed to the Chairperson or his or her designee who shall preside
   at the hearing.

   324.2. The Chairperson shall have the following powers, in addition to any
   other powers specified in §§ 320 to 355 and 399:
   
   
   
   (a)	To give notice concerning hearings;
   
   
   
   (b)	To administer oaths and affirmations;
   
   
   
   (c)	To examine witnesses and to take testimony;
   
   
   
   (d)	To issue subpoenas, to take depositions, or cause depositions or
   interrogatories to be taken;
   
   
   
   (e)	To rule upon offers of proof and to receive relevant evidence;
   
   
   
   (f)	To regulate the course and conduct of hearings;
   
   
   
   (g)	To hold conferences, before or during a hearing, for the settlement or
   simplification of issues;
   
   
   
   (h)	To rule on motions and to dispose of procedural requests or similar
   matters;
   
   
   
   (i)	To draft the initial and final orders and opinions to decisions of the
   hearing panels as provided in § 324.3; and
   
   
   
   (j)	To take any other action authorized by this chapter, the Administrative
   Procedure Act, or by any other applicable statute, rule, or regulation.

   324.3. The hearing panel shall have the following powers, in addition to any
   other powers specified in §§ 320 to 355 and 399:
   
   
   
   (a)	To examine witnesses and to take testimony; and
   
   
   
   (b)	To make the initial and final decisions in a proceeding and to direct the
   Chairperson to prepare a written order and opinion to effect such decision
   which shall be considered and approved by the hearing panel when satisfactory.

   324.4. The authority of the hearing panel in each case shall terminate upon
   the occurrence of any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Expiration of the period within which requests for administrative or
   judicial review may be filed;
   
   
   
   (b)	When a member or members of the hearing panel withdraws from the case upon
   considering himself, herself, or themselves disqualified, or for any other
   reason; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Reassignment of the proceedings by the Chairperson to another hearing
   panel.

   324.5. No person shall conduct a hearing in a proceeding in which he or she is
   prejudiced or partial with respect to any party, or where that person has any
   interest in the matter pending for decision before him or her.

   324.6. In cases to be determined upon an evidentiary record after notice and
   hearing, a party desiring that a person disqualify himself or herself from
   participating in the proceeding shall file a motion as provided in § 336.

   324.7. The Chairperson for a hearing panel to whom a case is assigned shall
   give the parties reasonable notice including the date, time and place of a
   hearing and the nature of the hearing.

   324.8. In no case shall notice be given less than ten (10) days prior to the
   hearing unless by consent of all parties to the hearing.

   324.9. In the case of a hearing for the contest of the imposition of civil
   fines pursuant to § 825, the availability of law enforcement personnel may be
   specified in the Notice of Infraction.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6751, 6761 (October 23, 1987).
