                                  DC REGULATIONS

OFFICERS (§ 31-300)

300.1. The officers of the Panel shall be the Chairperson, the Co-Chairperson
   for Adjudication, and the Secretary.

   300.2. The Chairperson shall perform the following duties:
   
   
   
   (a)	Preside at regular meetings of the Panel;
   
   
   
   (b)	Preside at all other meetings called by the Panel, or designate the
   Co-Chairperson for Adjudication or any other member of the Panel to preside;
   
   
   
   (c)	Serve as the spokesperson for the Panel on all matters, or designate the
   Co-Chairperson or another member of the Panel to serve in that capacity;
   
   
   
   (d)	Preside at all proceedings of the hearing panels or designate another
   person to serve as his or her non-voting designee;
   
   
   
   (e)	Issue or sign notices and correspondence in accordance with § 309;
   
   
   
   (f)	Appoint committees and their chairs and hearing panels as required; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Perform other duties of the Panel as the Panel may delegate.

   300.3. The Co-Chairperson shall act as Chairperson when the Chairperson is
   absent, or when requested by the Chairperson, and shall perform other duties
   assigned by the Chairperson or the Panel to the extent permitted by law.

   300.4. The Secretary shall perform the following duties:
   
   
   
   (a)	Oversee the recording of the taped transcription of Panel meetings and of
   proceedings by hearing panels;
   
   
   
   (b)	Call the roll at Panel meetings;
   
   
   
   (c)	Announce that a quorum is or is not present;
   
   
   
   (d)	Maintain a record of the attendance of commissioners at Panel meetings;
   and
   
   
   
   (e)	Perform such ministerial and other duties assigned by the Panel.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: Unless otherwise noted, the authority for this chapter is the
   District of Columbia Taxicab Commission Establishment Act of 1985, D.C.
   Official Code §§ 50-301 to 50-320 (2001).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6751 (October 23, 1987).
