                                  DC REGULATIONS

DISMISSAL OF HEARINGS (ยง 31-325)

325.1. With the approval of the hearing panel at any time prior to the mailing
   of notice of the decision, a demand for a hearing may be withdrawn or
   dismissed upon motion of the party or parties filing the demand for the
   hearing.

   325.2. A party may request a dismissal by filing a written notice with the
   Chairperson or orally stating the request at the hearing.

   325.3. With the approval of the hearing panel, a demand for hearing may be
   dismissed upon its abandonment by the party or parties who filed it.

   325.4. A party shall be deemed to have abandoned a demand for a hearing if
   neither the party nor his or her attorney appears at the time and place fixed
   for the hearing and, prior to the time for hearing, the party has not shown
   good cause why neither he or she nor his or her attorney can appear.

   325.5. The hearing panel may, on its own motion direct the Chairperson, to
   dismiss a hearing demand, either entirely or as to any stated issue, under any
   of the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	Where the doctrine of res judicata is applicable because of a final
   decision either by the Department of Public Works, the Office, a hearing
   panel, or by judicial affirmance. Where the grounds asserted for a proposed
   revocation or suspension have been the subject of a trial and judgment by the
   Superior Court of the District of Columbia, and that judgment is in favor of
   the party demanding the hearing, the demand shall be dismissed, the proposal
   denied, and the license restored, without fee, unless there exists some other
   encumbrance on the license;
   
   
   
   (b)	Where the party demanding a hearing is not a proper party or does not
   otherwise have a right to a hearing;
   
   
   
   (c)	Where the party has failed to file a timely hearing demand pursuant to the
   provisions of this chapter, and the time for filing the demand has not been
   extended under the provisions of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (d)	Where a party who filed the hearing demand dies and there is no
   information before the hearing panel showing that an individual who is not a
   party may be prejudiced by the determination which is the subject of the
   demand for hearing; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Where the hearing panel, in its opinion, finds that a petition filed in
   any proceeding does not raise a question of fact or the claim or prayer is
   frivolous.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6751, 6763 (October 23, 1987).
