                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICE OF DOCUMENTS (ยง 31-330)

330.1. Formal notices, final orders, and similar documents issued by the
   Chairperson on behalf of the hearing panel shall be served by the Chairperson
   on all parties to the proceedings.

   330.2. Any document filed by any party with the Chairperson on behalf of the
   hearing panel shall be served upon all parties to the proceedings in which it
   is filed.

   330.3. Service may be made by regular mail, by registered or certified mail,
   or by personal delivery.

   330.4. Service upon a party may be upon an individual, or upon a partnership
   member, or upon the president or other officers of the corporation, company,
   firm, or association to be served, or upon the assignee or legal successor of
   any of the foregoing, or upon any attorney of record for the party, or upon
   the agent designated by a party to receive service of documents in a
   particular proceeding as provided by District of Columbia law other than the
   Administrative Procedure Act.

   330.5. Service by regular or registered or certified mail shall be made at the
   address of the party designated under ยง 329.4 to receive service of
   documents. If no such person is designated, service may be made at the usual
   residence or principal place of business of the party, or, if unknown, at the
   last address furnished by the party to the Office or the Commission.

   330.6. Proof of service shall accompany all documents when they are tendered
   for filing. Proof of service of any document shall consist of one of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A certificate of mailing executed by the person mailing the document; or
   
   
   
   (b)	An acknowledgement of service signed by a party receiving service
   personally or a certificate of the person making personal service.

   330.7. Acknowledgement of service may be made by any person at the address
   shown on the document who is sixteen (16) years of age or over.

   330.8. Whenever proof of service is made by mail, the date of mailing shall be
   the date of service.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6751, 6767 (October 23, 1987).
