                                  DC REGULATIONS

AMATEUR BOXING EVENTS (§ 19-2137)

2137.1. The Commission shall cooperate in the enforcement of United States
   Amateur Boxing Federation or National Collegiate Athletic Association rules;
   provided, that these rules are not contrary to this chapter or chapter 16 of
   this title.

   2137.2. In addition to the requirements of amateur rules, the promoter of an
   amateur event shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Obtain a contest permit prior to holding the event;
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide the Commission with the tax exemption number of the promoter;
   
   
   
   (c)	Submit to the Commission, prior to commencement of the event, when
   admission is charged, a manifest or report on the number, kind, and price of
   the tickets printed for the event;
   
   
   
   (d)	Obtain the services of two (2) ringside physicians, licensed and approved
   by the Commission; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Ensure the availability of an ambulance on site during the event.

   2137.3. The promoter shall provide, at a minimum, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Rosin boxes;
   
   
   
   (b)	Gloves;
   
   
   
   (c)	 Water buckets and siphon bottles;
   
   
   
   (d)	Stretcher;
   
   
   
   (e)	Adequate lighting;
   
   
   
   (f)	Stools;
   
   
   
   (g)	Steps leading into the ring at both corners;
   
   
   
   (h)	A ring that is ready four (4) hours before the event; and
   
   
   
   (i)	A ring that is four feet (4’) above the floor, with four (4) strand
   ropes secured by strings on all sides, corner and canvas paddings one and
   one-half (1 ½”) inches thick, clean and sanitary.

   2137.4. Each contestant competing in any amateur event shall be properly
   fitted with, and at all times during the event shall wear, protective head
   gear and a mouthpiece, approved by the Commission.

   2137.5. Each contestant competing in any amateur event shall use thumbless or
   thumb- attached padded gloves approved by the Commission.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3731, 3750-52 (May 20, 1988).
