                                  DC REGULATIONS

PAYMENT OF MINIMUM WAGE (ยง 7-902)

902.1. Commencing October 1, 1993, the minimum wage required to be paid to any
   employee by any employer in the District of Columbia shall be the minimum wage
   set by the United States Government, plus $1.00, except that this requirement
   shall not apply to Wage Order Number 5, &#8220;Laundry and Dry Cleaning
   Occupations,&#8221; issued by the former Wage-Hour Board.

   902.2. Irrespective of the basis of payment, whether time rate, piece rate,
   balms or commission, employers shall unconditionally pay employees all earned
   wages at least twice during each calendar month, on regular pay days,
   designated in advance by the employer, at not less than the minimum wage rate
   required.

   902.3. The minimum wage provision shall not apply with respect to an
   individual:
   
   
   
   (a)	Employed in a bona fide executive, administrative or professional
   capacity;
   
   
   
   (b)	Employed as an outside salesperson; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Engaged in the delivery of newspapers to the home of the consumer.

   902.4. The minimum wage provision does not apply in instances where other laws
   or regulations establish minimum rates for the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Handicapped: All handicapped workers shall be paid at a rate not less than
   the minimum wage, except in those instances where a certificate has been
   issued by the United States Department of Labor that authorizes the payment of
   less to handicapped workers under section 214(c) of the Fair Labor Standards
   Act.
   
   
   
   (b)	Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA): Individuals employed under provisions
   of the Job Training Partnership Act shall be paid wages pursuant to that Act.
   
   
   
   (c)	Older Americans Act (OAA): Individuals employed under provisions of the
   Older Americans Act shall be paid pursuant to that Act.
   
   
   
   (d)	Youth Employment Act (YEA): Individuals employed under provisions of the
   Youth Employment Act shall be paid wages pursuant to that Act
   
   
   
   (e)	Adult Learners: Newly hired persons 18 years of age or older may be paid
   the minimum wage established by the United States Government for a period not
   to exceed 90 calendar days.
   
   
   
   (f)	Students: Students employed by institutions of higher education may be
   paid the minimum wage established by the United States Government,
   
   
   
   (g)	Minors: Individuals under the age of 18 years old may be paid the minimum
   wage established by the United States Government.

   902.5. The overtime provision shall not apply with respect to an individual:
   
   
   
   (a)	Employed as a private household worker who lives on the premises of the
   employer.
   
   
   
   (b)	Employed as a companion for the aged or infirm.

   902.6. Overtime compensation under the Act shall be paid in accordance with
   Title 29 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 778, Overtime Compensation Under
   -the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, except that Subpart A
   (General Considerations), Subpart E (Exceptions From the Regular Rate
   Principles), Subpart G (Miscellaneous), and Section 778.101 (Maximum
   Non-overtime Hours) shall have no force and effect.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 187 (January 14,
   1994).
