                                  DC REGULATIONS

AGENCY REVIEW (§ 24-1401)

1401.1. Prior to submission of the application to the Council, the application
   shall be reviewed by those agencies and persons listed in this section in the
   time frame set forth in this section.

   1401.2. The Director shall assemble the application file and send it to the
   agencies and persons as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Fire Chief who shall review the application to determine if the
   closing will have an adverse impact on fire safety and protection;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Director of the Department of Finance and Revenue who shall determine
   the assessed value of the street or alley to be closed and the assessed value
   of each lot and each building identified by the applicant or the agent of the
   applicant as required by §1400.4(d);
   
   
   
   (c)	The Director of the Office of Planning who shall determine whether the
   proposed closing is in compliance with the District&#8217;s planning urban
   design objectives, and who shall coordinate with the Executive Director of the
   Office of Business and Economic Development as set forth in §1401.2(e);
   
   
   
   (d)	The Director of the Department of Housing and Community Development who
   shall determine whether the proposed closing will adversely affect the
   District&#8217;s housing goals, or redevelopment plans and programs, and who
   shall coordinate with the Executive Director of the Office of Business and
   Economic Development as set forth in §1401.2(e);
   
   
   
   (e)	The Executive Director of the Office of Business and Economic Development
   who, in coordination with the Office of Planning and the Department of Housing
   and Community Development, shall determine the effect of the street or alley
   closing upon any existing retail tenants in buildings associated with the
   street or alley closing; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The public utilities companies who shall determine whether the proposed
   closing will adversely affect their facilities.

   1401.3. The Director shall review the application for the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	To determine whether the closing is compatible with the transportation
   policies, goals, and objectives of the District;
   
   
   
   (b)	To determine whether the closing will adversely affect the drainage system
   or District owned hardware and facilities; and
   
   
   
   (c)	To determine whether the closing will have an adverse impact on sewer and
   water facilities or on solid waste collection.

   1401.4. The agencies and persons listed in § 1401.2 shall forward their
   comments to the Director within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
   application. Failure to provide written comments within the thirty-day (30)
   period shall result in the Director assuming that the non-responding agency or
   person has no comments and has no objections to the application.

   1401.5. The comments forwarded to the Director shall include any objection to
   the proposed application and what conditions the applicant must comply with in
   order for the objection of the agency or person to be removed.

   1401.6. An agency or a person submitting comments to the Director pursuant to
   this section may state that the comment shall only be valid for a specific
   period of time; Provided, that any comment submitted to the Director shall be
   valid for a minimum of two (2) years from the date the comment was submitted.

   1401.7. The Director shall advise the applicant of the comments received
   pursuant to this section.

   1401.8. The applicant shall either resolve any objections with the appropriate
   agency or the applicant shall accept, in writing, unconditionally and without
   reservation, the conditions as set forth in the appropriate comments.

   1401.9. If the applicant fails to respond, in writing, to the objections or
   conditions within ninety (90) days of notification, the application shall be
   deemed abandoned.

   1401.10. If the applicant requests, the Director shall extend the ninety-day
   (90) time period imposed pursuant to § 1401.8 for an additional sixty (60)
   days.

   1401.11. The Director shall forward an application to the Council of the
   District of Columbia (hereinafter referred to as the &#8220;Council&#8221;)
   when the condition(s) and the objection(s) of the District agencies shall be
   resolved by the applicant or when the condition(s) are accepted by the
   applicant, in writing, unconditionally and without reservation.

   1401.12. The resolution of the conditions and the objections shall be as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	In writing;
   
   
   
   (b)	Signed by the applicant; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Approved by the Director and the appropriate District agency.

   1401.13. The Director, in his or her discretion, may forward an application to
   close a street or alley to the Council for a public hearing if the Director
   believes that the provisions of this section will be completed prior to the
   public hearing and if the failure of an expedited consideration by the Council
   shall cause undue hardship to the applicant or the District.

   1401.14. Any comments on or conditions to the application that are received by
   the Director subsequent to the application being forwarded to the Council
   shall be transmitted to the Council in a timely fashion by the Director.

   1401.15. The Director shall prepare a plat indicating the closing of the
   street or alley when all comments have been received (or the time limit
   specified in §1401.4 has elapsed and all objections resolved pursuant to this
   section); Except, that the Director shall prepare a plat prior to receiving
   all comments when the Director forwards the application to the Council
   pursuant to §1401.13.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 31 DCR 560, 561 (February 10, 1984); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 2695, 2596 (April 24, 1987).
