                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROCEDURE AND EFFECT (ยง 17-724)

724.1. The following provisions shall apply to business corporations:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A business corporation that plans a merger or share exchange with one or more
   business corporations shall comply with Subchapter IX (Merger and Share
   Exchanges) of Chapter 3 (Business Corporations) of the Act.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A business corporation that plans a merger with an entity other than a
   business corporation shall comply with Chapter 2 (Entity Transactions) of the
   Act.

   724.2. The following provision shall apply to nonprofit corporations:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A nonprofit corporation that plans a merger or membership exchange with one or
   more nonprofit corporations shall comply with Subchapter IX (Mergers and
   Membership Exchanges) of Chapter 4 (Nonprofit Corporations) of the Act.
   
   
   
   724.3 		The following provisions shall apply to professional corporations:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A professional corporation that plans a merger with one or more professional
   corporations or limited liability companies shall comply with D.C. Official
   Code ยง 29-512 (2011 Repl.).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A professional corporation that plans a merger with an entity other than a
   professional corporation or limited liability company shall comply with
   Chapter 2 (Entity Transactions) of the Act.

   724.4. The following provisions shall apply to general partnerships:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A general partnership that plans a merger with one or more general
   partnerships shall comply with Subchapter IX (Mergers and Interest Exchanges)
   of Chapter 6 (General Partnerships) of the Act.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A general partnership that plans a merger with an entity other than a general
   partnership shall comply with Chapter 2 (Entity Transactions) of the Act.

   724.5. The following provisions shall apply to limited partnerships:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A limited partnership that plans a merger with one or more limited
   partnerships shall comply with Subchapter X (Merger) of Chapter 7 (Limited
   Partnerships) of the Act.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A limited partnership plans a merger with an entity other than a limited
   partnership shall comply with Chapter 2 (Entity Transactions) of the Act.

   724.6. The following provisions shall apply to limited liability companies:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A limited liability company that plans a merger with one or more limited
   liability companies shall comply with Subchapter IX (Merger and Domestication)
   of Chapter 8 (Limited Liability Companies) of the Act.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A limited liability company that plans a merger with one or more professional
   corporations shall comply with D.C. Official Code ยง 29-512 (2011 Repl.).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A limited liability company that plans a merger with an entity other than a
   limited liability company or professional corporation shall comply with
   Chapter 2 (Entity Transactions) of the Act.

   724.7. The following provision shall apply to general cooperative
   associations:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A general cooperative association that plans a merger with one or more general
   cooperative associations shall comply with Chapter 2 (Entity Transactions) of
   the Act.

   724.8. The following provisions shall apply to limited cooperative
   associations:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A limited cooperative association that plans a merger with one or more limited
   cooperative associations shall comply with Subchapter XV (Merger) of Chapter
   10 (Limited Cooperative Associations) of the Act.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A limited cooperative association that plans a merger with an entity other
   than a limited cooperative association shall comply with Chapter 2 (Entity
   Transactions) of the Act.

   724.9. The following provisions shall apply to unincorporated nonprofit
   associations:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An unincorporated nonprofit association that plans a merger with one or more
   unincorporated nonprofit associations shall comply with D.C. Official Code ยง
   29-1126 of Chapter 11 (Unincorporated Nonprofit Associations) of the Act.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An unincorporated nonprofit association that plans a merger with an entity
   other than an unincorporated nonprofit association shall comply with Chapter 2
   (Entity Transactions) of the Act.

   724.10. The following provisions shall apply to statutory trusts:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A statutory trust that plans a merger with one or more statutory trusts shall
   comply with Subchapter VII (Merger) of Chapter 12 (Statutory Trusts) of the
   Act.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A statutory trust that plans a merger with an entity other than a statutory
   trust shall comply with Chapter 2 (Entity Transactions) of the Act.

   724.11. An entity that plans a merger with one or more entities other than
   those described in the other provisions of this section shall comply with
   Chapter 2 (Entity Transactions) of the Act.

   724.12. In addition to the requirements set forth in other provisions of this
   section:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A foreign filing entity shall be in good standing in the state of domicile
   before filing its articles of merger or articles of share exchange.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A registered foreign filing entity shall be in good standing in the state of
   domicile before filing its articles of merger or articles of share exchange
   with the Superintendent.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A nonregistered foreign filing entity shall submit to the Superintendent a
   certificate of good standing, certificate of existence, or similar document
   dated within the last ninety (90) days from the Secretary of State or other
   authorized officer of the jurisdiction of formation.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13139 (September 20, 2013).
