                                  DC REGULATIONS

ALLOCATION OF CHANNELS (ยง 15-3301)

3301.1. Subject to the restriction provided in subsection 3301.5, OCT may
   allocate channels to any entity, which may include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Mayor;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Council;
   
   
   
   (c)	Public Access Corporation;
   
   
   
   (d)	The University of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (e)	District of Columbia Public Schools; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Other governmental agencies or institutions, nonprofit organizations, and
   educational institutions.

   3301.2. In carrying out these objectives, OCT shall ensure that at all times:
   
   
   
   (a)	At least two (2) channels on the lowest service tier of cable television
   channels provided by the District&#8217;s cable television system operators or
   open video system operators is allocated to the Mayor for use as a government
   channel;
   
   
   
   (b)	At least two (2) channels on the lowest service tier of cable television
   channels provided by the District&#8217;s cable television system operators or
   open video system operators is allocated to the Council for use as a
   government channel;
   
   
   
   (c)	At least one (1) channel on the lowest service tier of cable television
   channels provided by the District&#8217;s cable television system operators or
   open video system operators is allocated to the University of the District of
   Columbia (UDC) for use as an educational channel;
   
   
   
   (d)	At least one (1) channel on the lowest service tier of cable television
   channels provided by the District&#8217;s cable television system operators or
   open video system operators is allocated to the District of Columbia Public
   Schools (DCPS) for use as an educational channel; and
   
   
   
   (e)	At least three (3) channels on the lowest service tier a of cable
   television channels provided by the District&#8217;s cable television system
   operators or open video system operators are allocated to the Public Access
   Corporation (PAC) for use as public channels.

   3301.3. The remaining channels after the minimum allocations as provided in
   subsection 3301.2 shall be allocated by OCT pursuant to these rules.

   3301.4. The discretionary allocation provision in subsection 3301.3 and the
   application procedure in section 3302 shall not apply to additional channels
   requested by the Mayor or the Council for their use. Such additional channels
   shall be allocated by OCT upon request of the Mayor or the Council, subject to
   availability.

   3301.5. Allocation of channels on the lowest service tier shall be subject to
   the approval of the Council, except that Council&#8217;s approval shall not be
   required for allocations made to the Mayor or the Council for their use.
   Allocation of additional channels shall not be subject to the approval of the
   Council.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 7543 (September 5, 2003).
