                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION PROCEDURE (ยง 15-3302)

3302.1. Whenever a channel becomes available on the system of any District
   cable or open video system operator, OCT shall publish a notice in the
   District of Columbia Register. The notice shall state the closing date for the
   submission of an application. Such closing date shall not be sooner than 30
   days after the publication of the notice. The notice may state any other
   applicable application criteria and required information.

   3302.2. Applications for channels must be submitted in writing to the
   Executive Director of OCT by the due date specified in the published notice.

   3302.3. Applications for a channel shall contain the following minimum
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name and address of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (b)	Contact person(s) and title(s);
   
   
   
   (c)	Names and biographies of the organization&#8217;s management, Board (if
   applicable), and proposed channel management;
   
   
   
   (d)	Summary of the applicant&#8217;s organizational history, current and/or
   planned organizational chart and mission statement as well as the
   applicant&#8217;s current programs, activities, and accomplishments;
   
   
   
   (e)	A detailed statement demonstrating the need for the channel;
   
   
   
   (f)	Detailed proposal of the applicant&#8217;s projected use of the channel,
   including programming proposals, show formats, and core issues and subjects to
   be featured;
   
   
   
   (g)	Description of how the channel will serve the applicant&#8217;s overall
   goals;
   
   
   
   (h)	Detailed demonstration of the applicant&#8217;s financial ability to
   operate a cable channel, including a proposed budget for operation of the
   channel and source of funding and how the applicant plans to support the
   channel continuously;
   
   
   
   (i)	Description of the applicant&#8217;s technical ability to operate a cable
   television channel, including a description of the current and proposed
   operating equipment and resources and a description of the qualifications and
   responsibilities of the staff and volunteers who will be working with the
   channel; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Description of the current or proposed facility for the operation of the
   channel.

   3302.4. OCT shall review each application, confirm the need stated by each
   applicant, and determine whether each applicant has the ability to operate a
   channel and satisfy such stated need. In making this determination, OCT may
   conduct technical inspections and tests of the applicant&#8217;s facility and
   equipment and may request additional information.

   3302.5. OCT may elect to hold a public hearing and receive testimony on any
   application. OCT may hold a combined hearing to review several applications.
   OCT shall publish a notice of such public hearing in the District of Columbia
   Register and shall hold the hearing no less than 15 days after the notice.

   3302.6. OCT may deny an application if it determines that the need for the
   channel does not exist or that the applicant lacks the technical, financial,
   managerial or other capabilities to operate a channel.

   3302.7. After reviewing the applications, OCT may (i) determine that no
   applicant has submitted an application sufficient to justify designation of
   the available channel and issue a final determination of such or (ii) approve
   one application as the most qualified to operate the available channel.

   3302.8. If an application is approved for a channel on the analog tier, then
   within 90 days of such approval or, if applicable, within 90 days of executing
   a PEG Operating Agreement with the applicant as provided in section 3303, OCT
   shall propose a resolution to the Council for approval of the allocation
   pursuant to subsection 3301.5. The resolution shall provide that the operation
   of the allocated channel shall be subject to these rules.

   3302.9. Within 90 days of (i) OCT&#8217;s allocation of any channel pursuant
   to these rules or the Council&#8217;s approval of such allocation and (ii) if
   applicable, the execution of a PEG Operating Agreement by the applicant, OCT
   shall notify cable and open video system operators in the District to include
   such channel as one of the District&#8217;s PEG channels. The notice shall
   provide details of the allocation and available information on the applicant.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 7543 (September 5, 2003).
