                                  DC REGULATIONS

ASSESSMENT AND TREATMENT PLANNING (ยง 29-4608)

4608.1. The Program Director, Assistant Director or Psychiatrist shall
   complete and document an initial evaluation promptly at the time of each
   client&#8217;s admission to the MCOTT Program.

   4608.2. The MCOTT Program shall assign an Individual Treatment Team to each
   client. Such team shall consist of three to five members possessing a range of
   clinical and rehabilitation skills and which shall be assigned by the clinical
   coordinator within a week of the MCOTT client&#8217;s admission to the MCOTT
   Program. The core members of this team shall be the Primary Case Manager,
   psychiatrist, and one clinical or rehabilitation staff who shall backup and
   share case coordination tasks and replace the Primary Case Manager when he/she
   is not working. The individual treatment team shall have: 1) continuous
   responsibility for the assessment of the client&#8217;s individual status and
   needs; 2) development of the treatment plan with the client and his/her
   family; and 3) direction and provision of much of the client&#8217;s treatment
   and rehabilitation skills. Individual treatment team members shall be assigned
   to take separate service roles with the client.

   4608.3. The Program Director, psychiatrist and individual treatment members
   shall complete and document a comprehensive assessment within one (1) month of
   the client&#8217;s admission to the MCOTT Program. The comprehensive
   assessment shall include, but not be limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Psychiatric symptomatology and mental status. Utilizing information
   derived from the evaluation, a psychiatrist or a clinical or counseling
   psychologist shall make a diagnosis listed in the American Psychiatric
   Association Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM IV or
   most current version);
   
   
   
   (b)	Psychiatric history, including compliance with and response to prescribed
   medical/psychiatric treatment;
   
   
   
   (c)	Medical, dental and other health needs;
   
   
   
   (d)	Extent and effect of drugs and/or alcohol use;
   
   
   
   (e)	Housing situation and conditions of daily living;
   
   
   
   (f)	Vocational and educational functioning;
   
   
   
   (g)	Criminal record, including final dispositions;
   
   
   
   (h)	Social functioning; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Recent history of client&#8217;s personal life.

   4608.4. Each MCOTT Program shall develop an Individual Treatment Plan
   (&#8220;ITP&#8221;) for each client. The ITP shall be written and developed
   collectively by the Program Director, Primary Case Manager and psychiatrist to
   plan treatment and service interventions and to assign staff persons
   responsible for providing the services. The ITP shall include, but is not
   limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Assessment of the client&#8217;s needs/problems; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Establishment of measurable long and short-term treatment goals.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 6122 (July 23, 1999).
