                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS (ยง 29-4607)

4607.1. Each MCOTT Program shall provide services to adults who have special
   community mental health treatment, rehabilitation and support needs, as
   further defined in 4607.2, and require at least ten (10) hours a month of
   ongoing, face-to-face services.

   4607.2. To be eligible for an MCOTT Program, an individual must be diagnosed
   with a severe and persistent mental illness and diagnosis listed in the
   American Psychiatric Association Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
   Disorders (DSM IV or most current version), excluding persons who have a
   primary diagnosis of substance abuse, mental retardation or personality
   disorder. In addition to meeting these diagnostic criteria for eligibility,
   MCOTT Program eligibility requires the demonstration of the following
   characteristics:
   
   
   
   (a)	Having an impairment in functioning with primary aspects of daily living
   as self care, living arrangement or employment according to the CMHS
   definition of serious mental illness;
   
   
   
   (b)	A treatment history meeting one of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Two or more admissions to an acute psychiatric hospital during the
   previous twelve months;
   
   
   
   (2)	At least three treatment contacts with EPRB during the previous twelve
   months;
   
   
   
   (3)	Current enrollment in a CMHS or contract provider&#8217;s intensive case
   management program and, despite documented treatment efforts of at least six
   months duration, demonstrated ongoing severe symptoms of mental illness; or
   
   
   
   (4)	Failure to be enrolled in a CMHS or contract provider program and, despite
   documented EPRB, Community Mental Health Center (CMHS), or provider outreach
   efforts to engage in treatment, of at least six months duration, demonstrated
   ongoing severe symptoms of mental illness; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Significant functional impairments as demonstrated by at least two of the
   following conditions:
   
   
   
   (1)	Inability to be employed at a self sustaining level;
   
   
   
   (2)	Failure to get treatment from traditional office-based providers;
   
   
   
   (3)	Constant lack of adequate housing;
   
   
   
   (4)	Co-occurring or secondary substance abuse;
   
   
   
   (6)	Destructive behavior to self or others; or
   
   
   
   (7)	Involvement as a defendant in the criminal justice system.

   4607.3. Each admission to a Provider&#8217;s MCOTT Program shall be authorized
   by CMHS, prior to admission.

   4607.4. The Program Director shall assign a psychiatrist, a Primary Case
   Manager, and individual treatment team members for the client within one (1)
   week of admission to the MCOTT Program.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 6122 (July 23, 1999).
