                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROGRAM SERVICES (ยง 29-4606)

4606.1. Each MCOTT Program shall have the capability to provide comprehensive
   treatment, rehabilitation, and support services as a self-contained service
   unit.

   4606.2. Each MCOTT Program shall give the highest priority to delivering
   individualized services outside of the MCOTT Program&#8217;s office facility,
   in home and community settings, with an emphasis on assertive outreach to
   MCOTT clients with severe and persistent mental illness.

   4606.3. Each MCOTT Program shall ensure that MCOTT clients are guaranteed full
   access to services once they are admitted to the MCOTT Program.

   4606.4. An MCOTT Program&#8217;s service delivery shall not be time-limited
   but shall be based on each MCOTT client&#8217;s needs.

   4606.5. Each MCOTT Program shall ensure that MCOTT services are available
   24-hours per day, seven days per week, including telephone and face-to-face
   contact, in conjunction with the EPRB Crisis Team.

   4606.6. Each MCOTT Program shall provide case management which shall involve
   an organized process of case coordination among the multi-disciplinary team in
   order to provide a full range of appropriate treatment, rehabilitation and
   support services to a client in a planned, coordinated, efficient and
   effective manner.

   4606.7. Each MCOTT Program shall provide management services to help the
   client cope with symptoms and disabilities as they go about daily living.
   These services shall include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ongoing assessment of the client&#8217;s mental illness symptoms and the
   client&#8217;s response to treatment;
   
   
   
   (b)	Symptom education to enable the client to identify his/her mental illness
   symptoms; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Individual supportive therapy and teaching of symptom management
   techniques to alleviate and manage symptoms that can not be treated with
   medication.

   4606.8. In each MCOTT Program, a psychiatrist shall provide medication
   management services, which shall include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Assessment of each client&#8217;s mental illness symptoms and behavior and
   prescription of appropriate medication;
   
   
   
   (b)	Monthly review and documentation of the client&#8217;s mental illness
   symptoms as well as his/her response to prescribed medication treatment;
   
   
   
   (c)	Education of the client regarding his/her mental illness and the effects
   and side effects of medication prescribed to regulate it; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Monitoring, treatment and documentation of any medication side effects.

   4606.9. Each MCOTT Program shall provide clinical supervision which shall
   require face-to-face contact between the clinical supervisor and a staff
   member to review the client&#8217;s clinical status and to ensure appropriate
   treatment and services are provided to the client by the staff member.
   Clinical supervision may occur during the daily organizational staff meetings
   and the treatment planning meetings.

   4606.10. Each MCOTT Program shall provide Activities of Daily Living services
   in community-based settings, which shall include individualized support,
   problem solving, training and supervision to assist the client to gain or
   utilize the skills needed to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Carry out personal hygiene and grooming tasks;
   
   
   
   (b)	Carry out household activities, including housekeeping, cooking, grocery
   shopping and laundry;
   
   
   
   (c)	Develop or improve money management skills; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Use available transportation.

   4606.11. Each MCOTT Program shall provide support services, which include case
   management, individualized support, problem solving, training and supervision
   to help the client obtain:
   
   
   
   (a)	Services to meet physical and dental health needs;
   
   
   
   (b)	Needed legal services;
   
   
   
   (c)	Financial support such as supplemental security income, social security
   disability insurance, general relief and money management services; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Living accommodations, including locating, financing and maintaining safe
   and normal living arrangements and enabling the client to relate to his or her
   landlord and neighbors in an acceptable manner.

   4606.12. Each MCOTT program shall provide social and recreational skills
   training services individually or in small groups to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Improve communication skills;
   
   
   
   (b)	Facilitate a appropriate interpersonal behavior; and/or
   
   
   
   (c)	Familiarize clients with available social and recreational opportunities
   and increase their use of such opportunities.

   4606.13. Each MCOTT Program shall provide substance abuse services on an
   as-needed basis, which shall include, but are not limited to, individual and
   group interventions to assist clients in:
   
   
   
   (a)	Identifying alcohol and drug effects and patterns;
   
   
   
   (b)	Recognizing the relationship between alcohol/drugs and mental illness and
   psychotropic medications and mental illness;
   
   
   
   (c)	Developing motivation for decreasing substance use;
   
   
   
   (d)	Developing coping skills and alternatives to minimize substance use; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Achieving periods of abstinence and stability.

   4606.14. Each MCOTT Program shall provide employment-related services in
   community-based settings to assess the effect of the MCOTT client&#8217;s
   mental illness on employment and to develop an ongoing employment
   rehabilitation plan to enable the client to get and keep a job.
   Employment-related services include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Individualized initial and comprehensive evaluation, including a thorough
   work and academic history and on-site work assessments in community-based,
   MCOTT-structured jobs;
   
   
   
   (b)	Identification of behaviors that interfere with the client&#8217;s work
   performance and development of interventions to alleviate the problem
   behaviors;
   
   
   
   (c)	Individual supportive counseling to enable the client to identify and cope
   with symptoms of mental illness that affect the client&#8217;s work;
   
   
   
   (d)	Work-related supportive services, such as assistance with grooming and
   personal hygiene, securing appropriate clothing, wake-up calls,
   transportation, on-the-job support and crisis assistance; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Ongoing on-the-job performance assessment, evaluation and planning.

   4606.15. Each MCOTT Program shall provide support services for the families of
   MCOTT clients and other significant members of the clients&#8217; social
   network to assist them and the client to relate in a positive and supportive
   manner. These support services shall include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Education about the client&#8217;s illness and their role in the
   therapeutic process;
   
   
   
   (b)	Individual supportive counseling; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Intervention to resolve conflict.

   4606.16. Each MCOTT Program shall have the capacity to provide multiple
   contacts each week to clients experiencing severe symptoms and/or significant
   problems in daily living. These multiple contacts may be as frequent as two to
   three times per day, seven days per week.

   4606.17. Each MCOTT Program shall have the capacity to increase the service
   intensity to a client within hours of reported significant changes in the
   MCOTT client&#8217;s status needs.

   4606.18. Each MCOTT Program shall provide, at a minimum, three face-to-face
   contacts with each MCOTT client per week.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 6122 (July 23, 1999).
