                                  DC REGULATIONS

AUDITS AND REVIEWS (ยง 29-4613)

4613.1. MAA shall perform ongoing audits, on-site visits, and reviews of MCOTT
   Programs to ensure that Medicaid payments are consistent with efficiency,
   economy and quality of care and in accordance with federal regulations
   governing Medicaid.

   4613.2. The review process shall be routinely conducted by MAA to determine,
   by statistically valid scientific sampling, the appropriateness of services
   rendered and billed to Medicaid.

   4613.3. If MAA determines that claims are to be denied, MAA shall recoup, by
   the most expeditious means available, those monics erroneously paid to the
   Provider for denied claims, following the period of Administrative Review set
   out in Section 4614 of this chapter.

   4613.4. The recoupment amounts for overpayments shall be determined by the
   following formula: A fraction will be calculated with the numerator consisting
   of the number of denied paid claims resulting from the audited sample. The
   denominator shall be the total amount of the paid claims of the Provider
   during the period being audited. This fraction multiplied by the total amount
   of the paid claims during the period audited shall be the amount recouped. For
   example, if a sample of one hundred (100) client service records are audited
   in which one thousand dollars ($ 1,000) were Medicaid-paid claims and ten (10)
   of those paid claims are denied from reimbursement, then ten percent (10%) of
   the amount paid, or one hundred dollars ($ 100), would be recouped from the
   Provider.

   4613.5. Each Provider shall agree to facilitate audits and reviews of its
   MCOTT Program(s) by maintaining the required records and by cooperating with
   the MAA authorized personnel assigned to perform audits and reviews. These
   personnel are bound by law to fully respect and abide by all protections of
   the law regarding confidentiality of client information.

   4613.6. The failure of a MCOTT provider to timely release or grant access to
   program documents and records to MAA auditors, after reasonable notice from
   MAA to the MCOTT provider to produce the same, shall constitute grounds to
   terminate the Provider agreement.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 6122 (July 23, 1999).
