                                  DC REGULATIONS

STAFFING AND ADMINISTRATION (ยง 29-4603)

4603.1. Each MCOTT Program shall have as Program Director, a person who (1) is
   a licensed Psychiatrist, credentialed to practice in the District of Columbia,
   or a Master&#8217;s Degree level clinician in social work, nursing,
   psychology, counseling or other human service discipline and (2) has at least
   three years of experience in working with seriously and persistently mentally
   ill adults, including one year of program management or supervisory experience
   sufficient to administer the MCOTT Program.

   4603.2. Each MCOTT Program shall employ an assistant director who is a
   supervisory nurse with a Master&#8217;s degree in nursing and at least three
   years experience in working with seriously and persistently mentally ill
   adults, including one year of program management or supervisory experience
   sufficient to administer the MCOTT Program.

   4603.3. During hours during which the MCOTT office facility is not open, each
   MCOTT Program shall be staffed by professionals who are experienced in the
   MCOTT Program services, skilled in crisis intervention procedures, who are on
   call and available to respond to MCOTT clients by telephone and in person, as
   needed.

   4603.4. Each MCOTT Program shall be staffed with individuals who are qualified
   to provide the Program Services described in this chapter including, but not
   limited to, the following: case management; crisis assessment and
   intervention; symptom assessment, management, and supportive counseling;
   education; administration of medication, monitoring, and documentation;
   assistance to clients in obtaining the basic necessities of daily living
   including: assistance to clients in structuring and performing basic daily
   activities; development and support of social activities and relationships;
   substance abuse treatment; criminal justice liaison; assisting clients to find
   and maintain employment; and provision of support to the client&#8217;s family
   and significant others.

   4603.5. Each MCOTT Program shall employ the minimum number of staff persons,
   except a psychiatrist and a clerical office manager, as specified in this
   section.

   4603.6. Each MCOTT Program shall employ an office manager responsible for
   organizing, coordinating and monitoring all non-clinical operations of the
   MCOTT Program, including medical records management; operating and
   coordinating the computer systems; maintaining accounting and budget records
   for client and program expenditures; and provision of clerical and
   receptionist services.

   4603.7. Each MCOTT Program shall employ one full-time and one part-time
   psychiatrist to provide comprehensive psychiatric services. The comprehensive
   psychiatric services shall include face-to-face contact with clients,
   consultation with Provider staff and participation in regularly scheduled
   daily organizational staff meetings and treatment planning meetings.

   4603.8. Each MCOTT Program shall employ a minimum of five (5) full-time
   registered nurses. A Program Director with a Master&#8217;s degree in nursing
   or the assistant director who is the nurse supervisor shall not replace one of
   these five full-time nurses.

   4603.9. Each MCOTT Program shall employ a minimum of two (2) full-time
   vocational rehabilitation specialists with Master&#8217;s degrees in
   rehabilitation counseling or related field and at least one year of
   supervisory experience in providing individualized job development and
   supported employment on behalf of persons with physical or mental
   disabilities, or at least one year of vocational rehabilitation experience
   with individuals having a persistent mental illness which interferes with
   their ability to perform in normal work settings.

   4603.10. Each MCOTT Program shall employ a minimum of two (2) full-time
   Master&#8217;s degree social workers licensed in the District as Licensed
   Independent Clinical Social Workers (LICSW) and/or Licensed Graduate Social
   Workers (LGSW).

   4603.11. Each MCOTT Program shall employ a minimum of two (2) full-time Mental
   Health Specialists. The minimum qualifications for this position are a
   Bachelor&#8217;s degree and/or Master&#8217;s degree in mental health or
   allied professions.

   4603.12. Each MCOTT Program shall ensure that at least one (1) full-time staff
   person shall be registered as an addiction counselor under Title 17 of the
   DCMR, Chapter 73, to provide substance abuse services.

   4603.13. The MCOTT Program Director shall assign a staff person to be the
   Shift Manager who shall be in charge of developing and implementing the daily
   MCOTT assignment schedule as well as making all daily assignments, ensuring
   that all daily assignments are completed or rescheduled, and for handling all
   emergencies or crises that arise during the course of the day in consultation
   with the MCOTT Program Director, assistant program director, or psychiatrist.

   4603.14. MCOTT Program staff shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Document and notify all other staff of all changes in the client&#8217;s
   mental or social status;
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide any of the primary case management functions, as assigned, on
   behalf of, or in place of, the Primary Case Manager; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide emergency services when a client is in crisis.

   4603.15. Each MCOTT Program shall have a written policy for clinical
   supervision of staff providing treatment, rehabilitation, and support services
   to MCOTT clients.

   4603.16. The Program Director and/or the clinical staff designee shall assume
   responsibility for supervising and directing all MCOTT staff activities,
   including:
   
   
   
   (a)	Regular meetings held at least once a month with individual staff to
   review cases, assess performance, and give feedback;
   
   
   
   (b)	Individual, side-by-side sessions in which the supervisor accompanies an
   individual staff member to meet with clients in regularly, but not less than
   quarterly, scheduled or crisis meetings to enable the supervisor to assess
   performance, give feedback, and/or model alternative treatment approaches; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Participation with team members in daily organizational staff and
   treatment planning meetings to review and assess staff performance and provide
   staff direction regarding individual clients. Clinical supervision provided to
   staff shall be documented in writing.

   4603.17. The MCOTT Program shall have daily organizational staff meetings at
   regularly scheduled times established by the Program Director.

   4603.18. The daily organizational staff meetings shall be recorded in writing
   in a Daily Log or electronic record.

   4603.19. The Daily Log shall include, but is not limited to, the following
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A roster of clients in the MCOTT Program; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Brief documentation of any daily treatment, services and/or contacts; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A concise description of each client&#8217;s daily behavioral status.

   4603.20. The MCOTT Program shall maintain a Daily Team Assignment Schedule
   which shall be a written, daily timetable summarizing all client treatment and
   service contacts to be divided and shared by staff working on that day. The
   daily team assignment schedule shall be developed from a central file of all
   weekly client contact schedules.

   4603.21. The MCOTT Program Director shall use the staff meeting to do a daily
   evaluation of each client in terms of treatment contacts received.

   4603.22. The Program Director or designee shall maintain a weekly client
   contact schedule for each MCOTT client, which shall be maintained in a central
   file.

   4603.23. The Program Director or shift manager designee shall develop a daily
   team assignment schedule from the central file of all weekly client contact
   schedules.

   4603.24. The Program Director, Primary Case Manager and the MCOTT psychiatrist
   shall conduct treatment-planning meetings to develop each client&#8217;s
   Individual Treatment Plan (ITP) which shall be reviewed every three (3) months
   and rewritten every six (6) months.

   4603.25. At regularly, at least quarterly, scheduled times, per a written
   schedule maintained by the Program Director, the MCOTT Program shall hold
   treatment planning meetings under the supervision of the Program Director and
   psychiatrist to assess individual client needs/problems; to establish
   measurable long- and short-term treatment goals; to plan treatment and service
   interventions and to assign staff persons responsible for providing the
   services.

   4603.26. Each MCOTT Program shall provide a maximum staff-to-client ratio of
   one staff to ten clients for each full time clinical staff person, except
   psychiatrists.

   4603.27. Each MCOTT Program shall maintain written personnel policies and
   procedures and shall maintain personnel files which shall contain each
   employee&#8217;s application, credentials, job description, annual performance
   appraisal, job title, training, orientation, salary and a statement signed by
   the employee that the employee understands the obligation to maintain the
   confidentiality of client records under applicable local and federal law.

   4603.28. Each MCOTT Program shall have a current organizational chart that
   clearly defines the MCOTT Program&#8217;s structure, staff responsibilities,
   and lines of authority.

   4603.29. Each MCOTT Program&#8217;s organizational chart shall show
   relationships between the MCOTT Program and other entities, such as the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Board of Directors, if applicable;
   
   
   
   (b)	Advisory boards;
   
   
   
   (c)	The parent Provider organization, if applicable; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Health or service affiliations.

   4603.30. Each MCOTT Program shall have available to all staff a current MCOTT
   Program Manual which sets forth all of its policies and procedures.

   4603.31. Each MCOTT Program Manual shall include, but not be limited to, the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement reflecting the goals and missions of the MCOTT Program;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the services to be provided;
   
   
   
   (c)	The reimbursement methodology and/or fee schedules;
   
   
   
   (d)	Operational schedules;
   
   
   
   (e)	A description of the population to be served;
   
   
   
   (f)	Clinic policies, and quality assurance standards;
   
   
   
   (g)	Financial and record-keeping procedures;
   
   
   
   (h)	A statement of client&#8217;s rights;
   
   
   
   (i)	Admission criteria;
   
   
   
   (j)	Discharge and referral criteria;
   
   
   
   (k)	Written policies and procedures for emergency care;
   
   
   
   (l)	A description of staff and personnel policies, which shall be reviewed
   annually, revised as necessary and dated at time of review;
   
   
   
   (m)	A description of each staff position, procedures for employee hiring,
   evaluations, grievances, and in-service training;
   
   
   
   (n)	A description of in-service training of a meaningful nature for all
   non-professional staff and identification of the supervisor responsible for
   providing and facilitating that training; and
   
   
   
   (o)	An up-to-date listing of professional staff licensure and registration
   information.

   4603.32. Each MCOTT Program shall participate in the CMHS Organizational
   Performance Program, CMHS Policy 50000.115.IF, CMHS Performance Plan.

   4603.33. Each MCOTT Program shall be monitored through the Organizational
   Performance Plan. The Provider shall report the required data and findings
   quarterly as specified in the Organizational Performance Plan to the CMHS
   Adult Services Administration Quality Assessment Coordinator and to MAA staff
   on a quarterly basis.

   4603.34. Each MCOTT Program shall comply with the reporting requirements of
   the CMHS Policy 50000.480.1C, &#8220;Reporting Unusual Incidents&#8221;, by
   reporting such incidents to appropriate staff of MAA and CMHS by telephone
   within 24 hours and in writing within five (5) days of any unusual incident.
   Unusual incident means an event affecting MCOTT staff or clients which is
   significantly different from the regular routine or varies from established
   procedures which shall include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Death;
   
   
   
   (b)	Injury;
   
   
   
   (c)	Unexplained absence of the client from the program or his/her residence;
   
   
   
   (d)	Physical, sexual or verbal abuse of a client by staff or client(s);
   
   
   
   (e)	Staff negligence;
   
   
   
   (f)	Fire;
   
   
   
   (g)	Theft;
   
   
   
   (h)	Destruction of property;
   
   
   
   (i)	Sudden serious problems with the physical plant;
   
   
   
   (j)	Complaints from families or visitors of clients; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Requests for information from the press, attorneys or government officials
   outside of the Department of Human Services and the Department of Health.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 6122 (July 23, 1999).
