                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (ยง 29-4600)

4600.1. The provisions of this chapter governing conditions of participation
   for providers of Mobile Community Outreach Treatment Team services shall be in
   support and furtherance of the following goals:
   
   
   
   (a)	To establish MCOTT programs which are self-contained clinical teams to
   assume the responsibility for directly providing needed treatment,
   rehabilitation and support services to Medicaid clients with severe and
   persistent mental illness;
   
   
   
   (b)	To limit referrals of clients to service providers outside of an MCOTT
   Program;
   
   
   
   (c)	To provide services over a long-term emphasizing the continuity of
   caregivers for MCOTT clients;
   
   
   
   (d)	To deliver 75% of services outside of the MCOTT Program offices in home
   and community settings; and
   
   
   
   (e)	To emphasize outreach, relationship building, and the individualization of
   client services.

   4600.2. An entity seeking to participate as an MCOTT provider in the District
   of Columbia under the Medicaid Program shall be certified in compliance with
   all requirements set forth in this chapter.

   4600.3. Certification of Providers is the responsibility of the
   District&#8217;s Department of Health, Medical Assistance Administration.

   4600.4. To obtain certification, each Provider shall meet the requirements set
   forth in this chapter.

   4600.5. Each Provider shall meet all applicable Medicaid and Medicare
   regulations.

   4600.6. CMHS may participate as an MCOTT provider under these rules by
   satisfying the requirements for being an Organized Health Delivery System as
   defined in 42 CFR 447.10(b) and entering into an interagency agreement with
   MAA to provide MCOTT services. As an MCOTT Provider, CMHS may both directly
   provide MCOTT services and contract with other entities for the provision of
   MCOTT services.

   4600.7. A Provider may establish and administer more than one program to
   provide the comprehensive array of services described in these rules. In such
   circumstances, however, each MCOTT Program shall independently meet the MCOTT
   Program Standards set forth in this chapter.

   4600.8. No Program shall have more than 100 MCOTT clients at any given time.

   4600.9. Each Provider shall enter into an agreement between MAA and the
   Provider which shall specify the services to be provided, methods of
   operation, a program statement, financial and legal requirements which shall
   be met, and identification of the population to be served. In the event the
   Commission for Mental Health Services, District of Columbia Department of
   Human Services, is a Provider of MCOTT services, the D.C. Medicaid/MCOTT
   Provider Agreement shall include the Interagency Agreement between MAA and
   CMHS for MCOTT which shall specify the terms and conditions for CMHS being an
   MCOTT Provider.

   4600.10. Each Provider shall meet and adhere to the terms and conditions
   included in the Medicaid/MCOTT Provider Agreement.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 6122(July 23, 1999).
