                                  DC REGULATIONS

CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY FOR INCLUSIONARY UNITS (§ 14-2205)

2205.1 	An Inclusionary Development Owner shall obtain a certificate of
occupancy for each Inclusionary Unit in an Inclusionary Development or a
certificate of occupancy for an Inclusionary Development that identifies and
includes each Inclusionary Unit in the Inclusionary Development.







Prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for an Inclusionary Unit or
Inclusionary Development, an Inclusionary Development Owner shall provide to the
Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs an update of all information
provided in its application for a Certificate of Inclusionary Zoning Compliance,
if there has been any substantive change to such information since the filing of
the application.  The Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs shall review
the updated information pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 2203.







After the submission of the application for a certificate of occupancy, the
Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs shall inspect the Inclusionary
Unit or Inclusionary Development for compliance with the Certificate of
Inclusionary Zoning Compliance and the Inclusionary Zoning Program.







The Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs shall make good faith efforts
to complete its Inclusionary Zoning compliance inspection within seventeen (17)
days after receipt of the certificate of occupancy application.







No certificate of occupancy for an Inclusionary Unit or Inclusionary Development
shall be issued unless the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs
determines that the Inclusionary Unit or Inclusionary Development is in
compliance with the Certificate of Inclusionary Zoning Compliance and the
Inclusionary Zoning Program.







The Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs may authorize third parties to
certify the compliance of an Inclusionary Unit or Inclusionary Development with
the Certificate of Inclusionary Zoning Compliance and the Inclusionary Zoning
Program.







Pursuant to the Rental Housing Act of 1985, as amended, if an Inclusionary Unit
Owner enters into a temporary lease of a For Sale Inclusionary Unit, an
Inclusionary Unit Owner must register the Rental Inclusionary Unit as exempt,
pursuant to § 42-3502.05(a)(1) of the D.C. Official Code, with the Rental
Accommodations Division of the Department of Housing and Community Development.





	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 3907 (May 15, 2009); as
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 9295, 9302 (December 11, 2009).
