                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (§ 14-2200)

The purpose of this Chapter is to implement the Zoning Commission’s
Inclusionary Zoning Regulations (Title 11 DCMR, Chapter 26) and the Inclusionary
Zoning Act.







Subject to certain exemptions, the Zoning Commission’s Inclusionary Zoning
Regulations mandate that, in applicable zone districts, Inclusionary Units be
provided in new residential buildings of ten (10) or more dwelling units or when
the construction of ten (10) or more dwelling units represents an expansion of
an existing building’s gross floor area by fifty percent (50%) or more.







The Zoning Commission’s Inclusionary Zoning Regulations establish a formula to
determine the minimum and maximum amount of gross floor area that must be
reserved for Inclusionary Units, but leave the establishment of maximum prices
and rents for the Inclusionary Units to the Council and the Mayor.







Subject to certain exceptions, the Inclusionary Zoning Act requires Inclusionary
Units be sold or leased only to persons authorized by the Mayor at a price or
rent no greater than the maximum established by the Mayor.







The Inclusionary Zoning Act also provides that:



(a)	No building permit shall be issued for an Inclusionary Development unless
the Mayor approves a Certificate of Inclusionary Zoning Compliance and a
covenant signed by the Owner of the Inclusionary Development



(b)	No certificate of occupancy for a Market Rate Unit in an Inclusionary
Development shall be issued unless the application includes a written statement
signed by the Mayor and dated no earlier than six (6) months before the date of
the application indicating that the Inclusionary Development is in compliance
with the Inclusionary Zoning Program and the Certificate of Inclusionary Zoning
Compliance; and



(c)	A violation of the Inclusionary Zoning Program constitutes grounds for the
revocation of any building permit and certificate of occupancy for the market
rate portions of the Inclusionary Development.







This Chapter implements these aspects of the Inclusionary Zoning Act by
establishing, among other things:



(a)	The process and prerequisites for obtaining building permits and
certificates of occupancy for Inclusionary Developments;



(b)	The process for selecting households for referral to the owner of an
Inclusionary Unit; and



(c)	The responsibilities of and limitations on Inclusionary Unit Owners and
Tenants.







All timeframes established in this Chapter for an agency to take an action are
guidelines only. An agency’s failure to act within a timeframe established in
this Chapter shall not constitute a default by the agency and shall not permit
any person to take or refuse to take any action governed by the Inclusionary
Zoning Program.







In computing a period of time specified in this Chapter, calendar days shall be
counted unless otherwise provided.







In computing a period of time specified in this Chapter, the day of the act,
event, or default after which the designated period of time begins to run shall
not be included.  The last day of the period of time so computed shall be
included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or official District of Columbia
holiday, in which case the period of time shall run until the end of the next
day that is neither a Saturday, Sunday, nor official District of Columbia
holiday.







When, under this Chapter, a person has the right or is required to perform an
act within a prescribed period of time after the sending of or the date of a
notice or other paper, and the paper or notice is sent by mail, three (3) days
shall be added to the prescribed period of time.







In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Chapter and the
provisions of the Inclusionary Zoning Act or the Zoning Commission’s
Inclusionary Zoning Regulations, the most stringent provision shall apply.



	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 3907 (May 15, 2009); as
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 9295, 9296 (December 11, 2009).
