                                  DC REGULATIONS

DETERMINATION OF MAXIMUM RESALE PRICE (§ 14-2218)

The Maximum Resale Price (“MRP”) for a subsequent sale of a For Sale
Inclusionary Unit shall be determined through use of the formula MRP = (P  x
( F) + V (“Formula”), where:



(a)	P = the price the Owner paid for the Inclusionary Unit;



(b)	V = the sum of the value of the Eligible Capital Improvements and Eligible
Replacement and Repair Costs, as determined by the Department of Housing and
Community Development pursuant to this section; and



(c)	F = the sum of the Ten Year Compound Annual Growth Rates of the Area Median
Income (“AMI”) from the year of the Owner’s purchase of the Inclusionary
Unit to the year of the sale of the Inclusionary Unit by the Owner.  This sum
may be expressed:



(1)	As the result of the formula F = (1 + [((AMI Year m /AMI Year m-10) ^ (1/10)
-1) +…((AMI Year k /AMI year k-10) ^ (1/10) -1) / n]) ^ n, where m = the year
in which the Inclusionary Unit was purchased by the Owner, k = the year in which
the Inclusionary Unit is sold by the Owner, and n = the number of years the
Inclusionary Unit is owned by the Owner; or



(2)	As published by the Department of Housing and Community Development.









For the purposes of determining the value of “V” in the Formula, the
following improvements made to an Inclusionary Unit after the date of purchase
may be included at the percentage of cost indicated, to the extent they are
permanent in nature and add to the market value of the property:



(a)	Eligible Capital Improvements, which will be valued at 100% of reasonable
cost, as determined by the Department of Housing and Community Development; and



(b)	Eligible Replacement and Repair Costs, which shall be valued at 50% of
reasonable cost, as determined by the Department of Housing and Community
Development.







Ineligible costs shall not be included in the determining the value of “V”
in the Formula.







The value of improvements may be determined by the Department of Housing and
Community Development based upon documentation provided by the Inclusionary Unit
Owner or, if not provided, upon a standard value established by the Department
of Housing and Community Development.







The Department of Housing and Community Development may disallow an Eligible
Capital Improvement or Eligible Replacement and Repair Cost if the Department of
Housing and Community Development finds that the improvement diminished or did
not increase the fair market value of the Inclusionary Unit.







The Department of Housing and Community Development may reduce the value of a
capital improvement if there is evidence of abnormal physical deterioration of,
or abnormal wear and tear to, the capital improvement.







The Owner shall permit a representative of the Department of Housing and
Community Development to inspect the Inclusionary Unit upon request to verify
the existence and value of any capital improvements that are claimed by the
Owner.







No allowance shall be made in the Maximum Resale Price for the payment of real
estate brokerage fees associated with the sale of the Inclusionary Unit.







The value of personal property transferred to a purchaser in connection with the
resale of a For Sale Inclusionary Unit shall not be considered part of the sales
price of the For Sale Inclusionary Unit for the purposes of determining whether
the sales price of the For Sale Inclusionary Unit exceeds the MRP.



	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 3907 (May 15, 2009); as
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 9295, 9316 (December 11, 2009).
