                                  DC REGULATIONS

NET ENERGY BILLING AND CREDITING FOR SOS CUSTOMERS (§ 15-903)

903.1. This section governs the billing practices applicable to participating
   net energy billing customers receiving SOS generation service during a billing
   period.  In no event shall transmission or distribution-related usage charges
   be applied to the kilowatt-hours generated by the customer&#8217;s net
   metering facility.

   903.2. If the value of the generation (generation value) used to supply the
   customer’s usage exceeds the generation value of the electricity generated
   by the customer’s net metering facility during the billing period, the
   customer-generator will be billed for the difference between the generation
   value of the energy consumed and the energy supplied.

   903.3. For a customer-generator with an electric generating facility that has
   a capacity less than or equal to 1,000 kilowatts, if the generator value of
   the electricity generated by the customer’s net metering facility exceeds
   the generation value of the electricity used to supply the customer’s usage
   during the billing period, the customer-generator’s next bill will be
   credited for the difference between the generation value of the energy
   supplied and the energy consumed.  The credit for the difference in generation
   value shall be expressed as a dollar value on the customer-generator’s bill.
    If the full credit is not exhausted during the next billing period, the
   remaining credit shall be carried over until such time as the full credit has
   been exhausted.

   903.4. If the customer’s kWh usage exceeds the electricity generated by the
   customer’s net metering facility during the billing period, the
   customer-generator will be billed transmission and distribution related usage
   charges on the net energy supplied to the customer during the billing period.

   903.5. For a customer-generator with an electric generating facility that has
   a capacity  less than or equal to 100 kilowatts, if the electricity generated
   during the billing period by the customer-generator’s facility exceeds the
   customer-generator’s kWh usage during the billing period (excess
   generation), the customer-generator’s next bill will also be credited for
   the excess generation at the full retail rate for transmission and
   distribution service applicable during the billing period in which the excess
   generation occurred.  The credit for excess generation shall be expressed as a
   dollar value on the customer-generator’s bill.  If the sum of the full
   transmission and distribution credit for excess generation and the generation
   value credit is not exhausted during the next billing period, the remaining
   credit shall be carried over until such time as the full credit has been
   exhausted.  In no event shall such transmission- and distribution-related
   compensation for excess generation apply to customer-generators with electric
   generating facilities that have a capacity greater than 100 kilowatts.

   903.6. Net energy billing applies only to kilowatt-hour usage charges.  Net
   energy billing customers are responsible for all other charges applicable to
   the customer&#8217;s rate class and recovered through fixed amounts or over
   units other than kilowatt-hours, including customer, demand and/or minimum
   charges, as applicable.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 1588 (February 18, 2005); as
   amended by 55 DCR 7302 (July 4, 2008); as amended by Final Rulemaking
   published at 57 DCR 5249, 5251 (June 18, 2010).
