                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 15-999)

When used in this chapter; the following terms and phrases shall have the
following meaning:

“Capacity” means the maximum output, expressed in kilowatts, of an electric
generator under specific conditions designated by the manufacturer, as indicated
on a nameplate physically attached to the generator.

“Commission” means the Public Service Commission of the District of
Columbia.

“Competitive Electricity Supplier” means a person, including an aggregator,
broker, or marketer, who generates electricity; sells electricity; or purchases,
brokers, arranges or markets electricity for sale or retail customers: The term
excludes the following: (A) Building owners, lessees, or managers who manage the
internal distribution. system serving such building and who supply electricity
solely to occupants of the building for use by the occupants; (B)(1) Any person
who purchases electricity for its own use or for the use of its subsidiaries or
affiliates; or (2) Any apartment building or office building manager who
aggregates electric service requirements for his or her building or buildings,
or who does not: (a) Take title to the electricity; (b) Market electric services
to the individually-metered tenants of his or her building; or (c) Engage in the
resale of electric service to others; (C) Property owners who supply small
amounts of power, at cost, as accommodation to lessors or licensees of the
property; and (D) A consolidator.

“Customer-generator” means a residential or commercial customer that owns
(or leases or contracts) and operates an electric generating facility that: (a)
has a capacity of not more than 1000 kilowatts; (b) uses renewable resources,
cogeneration, fuel cells, or microturbines; (c) is located on the
customer&#8217;s premises; (d) is interconnected with the Electric
Company&#8217;s transmission and distribution facilities; and (e) is intended
primarily to offset all or part of the customer&#8217;s own electricity
requirements.

“Electric Company” means the company that provides distribution service.

“Eligible customer-generator” means a customer-generator whose net energy
metering system for renewable resources, cogeneration, fuel cells, and
microturbines meets all applicable safety and performance standards.



		“Full Retail Distribution Rate” means the per kilowatt-hour distribution
charges applicable to the net energy billing customer during the billing period.



		“Full Retail Transmission Rate” means the per kilowatt-hour transmission
charges applicable to the net energy billing customer during the billing period.

“Generation value” means the product of the applicable SOS kilowatt-hour
rate times the number of kilowatt-hours consumed and/or supplied, during the
time period(s) associated with such usage and/or supply.

“Net energy metering” means the difference between the kilowatt-hours
consumed by a customer-generator and the kilowatt-hours generated by the
customer-generator’s facility over any time period determined as if measured
by a single meter capable of registering the flow of electricity in two
directions.

“Net energy billing” means a billing and metering practice under which a
customer-generator is billed on the basis of net energy over the billing period.

“Standard Offer Service Provider” means a provider of standard offer service
chosen pursuant to Chapter 29 of the Commission&#8217;s rules.





	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 1588 (February 18, 2005); as
amended by 55 DCR 7302 (July 4, 2008); as amended by Final Rulemaking published
at 57 DCR 5249, 5253 (June 18, 2010).
