                                  DC REGULATIONS

NET ENERGY BILLING AND CREDITING FOR CUSTOMERS OF COMPETITIVE ENERGY SUPPLIERS
(§ 15-902)

902.1. A customer that has elected net energy billing may obtain generation
   service from any Competitive Electricity Supplier that agrees to provide
   service on a net energy basis. In such circumstances, the net inflow or
   outflow of electricity supplied to or by the customer-generator will be billed
   or credited at the Competitive Electricity Supplier’s energy rate specified
   in the agreement between the customer-generator and the Competitive
   Electricity Supplier.  The Competitive Electricity Supplier shall be
   responsible for calculating the net energy bill (or credit) amount for each
   billing period.

   902.2. For customer-generators purchasing generation and transmission service
   from a Competitive Electricity Supplier, if the customer-generator’s
   kilowatt-hour usage during the billing period exceeds the kilowatt-hours
   generated by the customer-generator during that period, the customer-generator
   will be billed for the net energy delivered by the Electric Company at the
   full retail distribution rate for distribution service.  In no event shall
   distribution-related usage charges be applied to the kilowatt-hours generated
   by the customer&#8217;s net metering facility.

   902.3. For a customer-generator with an electric generating facility that has
   a capacity less than or equal to 100 kilowatts, if the electricity generated
   during the billing period by the customer-generator’s facility exceeds the
   customer-generator’s kWh usage during the billing period (excess
   generation), the customer-generator’s next bill will be credited by the
   Electric Company for the excess generation at the full retail distribution
   rate.  The credit for excess generation shall be expressed as a dollar value
   on the customer-generator’s bill.  If the full credit for excess generation
   is not exhausted during the next billing period, the remaining credit shall be
   carried over until such time as the full credit has been exhausted.  In no
   event shall such distribution-related compensation for excess generation apply
   to customer-generators with electric generating facilities that have a
   capacity greater than 100 kilowatts.

   902.4. Net energy billing applies only to kilowatt-hour usage charges.  Net
   energy billing customers are responsible for all other charges applicable to
   the customer’s rate class and recovered through fixed amounts or over units
   other than kilowatt-hours, including customer and/or demand charges, as
   applicable.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 1587 (February 18, 2005); as
   amended by 55 DCR 7302 (July 4, 2008); as amended by Final Rulemaking
   published at 57 DCR 5249, 5250 (June 18, 2010).
