                                  DC REGULATIONS

THE PRE-AWARD PROCESS FOR SUBGRANTING TO PRIVATE ORGANIZATIONS (§ 1-5002)

5002.1. All subgrants to private organizations shall be awarded on a
   competitive basis. The exceptions are as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	An agency may make an award on a sole source basis in appropriate
   circumstances. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, situations
   where: (1) the award of the grant designates the subgrant recipient; (2) the
   federal law defines eligibility in such a way that there is only one eligible
   applicant; or (3) there is a recognized coalition of service providers through
   which the broadest community participation may be obtained in serving the
   targeted clientele.
   
   
   
   (b)	An agency may make an award to an unsolicited proposal if: (1) the agency
   has unobligated funds remaining from the grant due to unusual and
   unanticipated factors; (2)	the applicant has a program or project that clearly
   furthers the purpose of the grant;(3) the proposal reflects proprietary skills
   or technology that are limited in availability; and (4) the applicant brings
   to the total grant program matching resources (cash or in-kind) equivalent to
   at least thirty percent of the grant assistance requested.

   5002.2. When an agency decides to award subgrants to private organizations, it
   shall follow the steps described in section 5002, subsections 5002.3 through
   5002.7. These steps shall be followed even though the pool of applicants may
   also include governmental agencies.

   5002.3. The agency shall first complete and approve the Subgrant Certification
   Form (SCF) in which it certifies that a subgrant is authorized under the
   criteria set forth in section 5001.3.

   5002.4. The agency shall prepare the Request for Applications (“RFA”) as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The agency shall state in the RFA the eligibility requirements for
   applicants, the amount of total funding anticipated for approved applications,
   the average amount of each subgrant or the range of subgrant awards, the
   criteria that will be used for scoring applications, the deadline and
   technical requirements for submitting applications, and the date of the
   pre-application conference. If the agency has not received the official grant
   award at the time the RFA is prepared, a contingency clause shall be included
   which conditions the subgrant on the receipt and availability of funding;
   
   
   
   (b)	The agency shall describe the purpose of the program in the RFA by
   defining the type and range of services or activities that a subgrantee shall
   carry out under a subgrant. The applicant shall propose measurable goals,
   objectives and timeframes, target recipients and a plan of formal evaluation
   for each specific service proposed by the applicant. The “purpose of
   program” section should also specify the time period for which all services
   will be funded and any special requirements in the authorizing statute or
   regulations;
   
   
   
   (c)	The criteria specified in the RFA for scoring applications shall include,
   but not be limited to: justification of need for grant funds, soundness of
   proposed service delivery plan, adequacy and reasonableness of proposed
   resources required, and demonstrated capability for managing the proposed
   project; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The agency shall give applicants a reasonable deadline in the RFA for
   submitting applications. Normally, thirty business days is considered
   reasonable unless emergency circumstances necessitate a shorter period of
   time.

   5002.5. The agency shall prepare and disseminate a Notice of Funds
   Availability (“NOFA”) as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The NOFA shall include a brief description of the purpose for which funds
   are available, criteria for eligible applicants, and the time and location at
   which the RFA may be obtained; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The NOFA shall be published in the D.C. Register and on the website that
   is maintained by the OGMD for all grant-funded NOFAs issued by the District
   government. Additionally, an agency may choose to disseminate a NOFA by
   publishing it in local newspapers and community newsletters, direct mailing to
   all prospective applicants or any other reasonable form of distribution.

   5002.6. The agency shall establish a panel to review applications and make
   recommendations for award as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	After the NOFA has been published and the RFA released, the agency shall
   appoint a review panel. The panel shall be comprised of a minimum of three
   individuals with knowledge and expertise in the objectives of the grant and
   RFA, as well as in the standard administrative requirements mandated by the
   source of funds. The review panel shall score the applications and make
   recommendations on which applications should be funded. Final decisions on
   awards and amounts shall be made by the head of the agency;
   
   
   
   (b)	Panelists shall sign affidavits that certify that they have no personal or
   vested interest in the organizations that submitted applications in response
   to the RFA. Affidavit forms may be obtained from the OGMD. OGMD also maintains
   a central registry of qualified application reviewers. Agencies are encouraged
   to use this registry in recruiting review panelists;
   
   
   
   (c)	Panelists who are not employees of the District government may be
   compensated for time served on a panel in accordance with subsection (d);
   
   
   
   Panelists who are employees of the District government may not be compensated
   and may only serve if they have written authorization from their supervisors
   to serve on a panel;
   
   
   
   (d)	The administering agency may compensate review panelists at a rate that
   obtains the best qualified panelists within the following limits: (1) the
   maximum rate allowable by the federal grantor agency for its own review
   panelists; (2) the amount available in the administrative budget of the grant;
   and (3) the maximum daily rate of a current DS-15 pay scale;
   
   
   
   (e)	The agency shall ensure that the review panelists are trained for their
   tasks. The agency shall convene a meeting of the panelists prior to the review
   activities and instruct them on the goals and objectives of the grant and the
   RFA, the scoring criteria and instruments, and the timeframe for completion of
   the panel’s work. Guidelines for the establishment and management of review
   panels may be obtained from OGMD;
   
   
   
   (f)	After a review panel has completed its work, the agency shall evaluate
   each panelist’s performance and forward that evaluation to OGMD for
   inclusion in the central registry; and
   
   
   
   (g)	If the agency awards a sole source or unsolicited proposal, the agency
   need not use an external review panel. The agency shall internally evaluate
   and score the sole source or unsolicited proposal using the same criteria that
   would have been applied to a competitive solicitation. The agency shall
   prepare a sole source justification explaining the circumstances that
   justified the absence of competition and attach that justification to the
   subgrant Certification Form that is submitted to the OMGD.

   5002.7. The agency shall decide who shall be awarded a subgrant in accordance
   with the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	After the subgrant officer has received the evaluations and records of the
   review panel, the head of the agency or his/her designee shall make decisions
   on award and amount of each subgrant, subject to the advice of any advisory
   body required by law or regulation for the funding grant;
   
   
   
   (b)	If the agency director or his/her designee decides not to follow the
   review panel’s recommendation, he/she shall provide written justification in
   the grant records and attach a copy of that justification to the SCRF
   submitted to OGMD; and
   
   
   
   (c)	After preliminary decisions have been made on awards, but before all
   approvals have been received, information regarding awards may be considered
   confidential to the extent permitted under the requirements of the Freedom of
   Information Act.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 4517-21 (May 21, 1999).
