                                  DC REGULATIONS

LIMITED RECIPROCITY CERTIFICATIONS (ยง 29-524)

524.1 	The Director may grant limited reciprocity certifications of up to
   ninety (90) days to applicants for certification as Emergency Medical Services
   Agencies, emergency medical response vehicles, or emergency medical service
   providers if the applicant is certified in another jurisdiction and the
   Director determines that a limited reciprocity certification by the District
   is necessary to respond and protect the public health interest.
   
   
   
   524.2 	An Emergency Medical Services Agency seeking a limited reciprocity
   certification shall file a written application for a limited reciprocity
   Emergency Medical Services Agency certification in a manner specified by the
   Director. The Emergency Medical Services Agency shall attest that the agency
   complies with this chapter unless the Director waives the requirement in whole
   or in part.  The Director shall verify the attestation.
   
   
   
   524.3 	A limited reciprocity Emergency Medical Services Agency certification
   shall be valid for a time period determined by the Director based on the need;
   provided, the time period shall not be greater than ninety (90) days.

   524.4. A limited reciprocity Emergency Medical Services Agency certification
   shall not be transferable.
   
   
   
   524.5 	An Emergency Medical Services Agency shall file a written application
   for a limited reciprocity emergency medical response vehicle certification in
   a manner that the Director specifies. The emergency medical services agency
   shall attest that the vehicle complies with this chapter unless the Director
   waives the requirement in whole or in part.  The Director shall verify the
   attestation.
   
   
   
   524.6 	The Director may inspect any Emergency Medical Services Agency vehicle
   issued a limited reciprocity certification at any time for compliance with
   this chapter.

   524.7. A limited reciprocity Emergency Medical Services Agency vehicle
   certification shall be valid for a time period that the Director determines
   based on the need; provided, the time period shall not be greater than ninety
   (90) days.

   524.8. A limited reciprocity Emergency Medical Services Agency vehicle
   certification shall not be transferable.

   524.9. A limited reciprocity Emergency Medical Services Agency vehicle
   certification shall not be renewable.
   
   
   
   524.10 	A limited reciprocity Emergency Medical Services Agency vehicle
   certification shall be affixed on the vehicle to be readily visible and in a
   location and manner that the Director specifies.

   524.11. An Emergency Medical Services Agency vehicle for which a limited
   reciprocity certification has been granted shall not be operated without a
   properly displayed certification.

   524.12. An Emergency Medical Services Agency shall file a written application
   for a limited reciprocity emergency medical service provider certification in
   a manner that the Director specifies. The Emergency Medical Services Agency
   shall attest that the provider complies with this chapter unless the Director
   waives the requirement in whole or in part.  The Director shall verify the
   attestation.

   524.13. The Director may inspect the credentials of an EMS provider who has
   been issued a limited reciprocity certification at any time for compliance
   with this chapter.

   524.14. A limited reciprocity EMS provider certification shall be valid for a
   time period that the Director establishes based on the need; provided, the
   time period shall not be greater than ninety (90) days.

   524.15. A limited reciprocity EMS provider certification shall not be
   transferable.

   524.16. A limited reciprocity EMS provider certification shall not be
   renewable.

   524.17. An EMS provider shall maintain copies of his home-state certification
   and District limited reciprocity certification at all times while performing
   patient care in the District.

   524.18. An EMS provider licensed or certified in another jurisdiction shall
   not practice without an DOH-issued certification.

   524.19. In limited circumstances, when it is necessary to respond and protect
   the public safety or health, the Director may issue limited reciprocity
   certifications in groups.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16569 (December 6, 2013).
