                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION CURRICULUM STANDARDS (ยง
29-542)

542.1. The Director shall approve all EMS course curricula that are intended
   to be used for certification, continuing education, and refresher courses that
   are taught in the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   542.2 	Courses that are taught in the District of Columbia prior to the
   curriculum being approved will not be approved retroactively.

   542.3. Curricula shall conform to, and instruct according to, current national
   standards and guidelines, including current NREMT standards.

   542.4. In order to receive District approval of an EMS curriculum and to be
   eligible to use that curriculum in a certification, continuing education or
   refresher course, an EMS educational institution or Emergency Medical Services
   Agency shall file an application with the Director.  The application shall
   include the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Program director;
   
   
   
   (b)	Curriculum author;
   
   
   
   (c)	Curriculum title; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Topic area (ALS or BLS).

   542.5. A curriculum application shall be filed at least forty-five (45) days
   before the educational institution or Emergency Medical Services Agency
   intends to use the curriculum in a course.

   542.6. All curricula submitted to the Director shall be assigned a curriculum
   tracking number. A tracking number shall be assigned regardless of whether the
   curriculum is approved or denied. The tracking number shall be used in all
   correspondence related to the curriculum.

   542.7. To maintain approval by the Director a course curriculum shall be
   updated to remain current with nationally accepted standards. Any updates to
   the curriculum shall be submitted to the Director as a new curriculum as
   outlined in this section.

   542.8. Curricula that are currently approved by the Continuing Education
   Coordinating Board for Emergency Medical Services (CECBEMS) do not need to be
   submitted for District approval.

   542.9. The educational institution or Emergency Medical Services Agency shall
   submit a curriculum application along with a copy of the CECBEMS curriculum
   approval documentation to obtain a DOH curriculum number. The DOH curriculum
   number shall be used on the course application when used in a District course.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16569 (December 6, 2013).
