                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES AGENCIES[COLON] STORAGE OF LINENS, EQUIPMENT, AND
SUPPLIES (§ 29-506)

506.1 	An Emergency Medical Services Agency shall supply adequate, clean, and
   enclosed storage space for linens, equipment, and supplies at each place of
   operation. The storage shall be maintained as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	An area used for storing equipment or supplies shall be kept neat, clean,
   and sanitary;
   
   
   
   (b)	When the Emergency Medical Services Agency is operating an ambulance, an
   area used for storing linens shall be kept neat, clean, and sanitary;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Soiled supplies and used disposable items shall be stored or disposed of in
   plastic bags, covered containers, or compartments provided for this purpose;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	Regulated waste shall be stored in a red or orange bag or container
   clearly marked with a biohazard label.

   506.2. An area used for storing medications and administration devices shall
   comply with the applicable drug or device manufacturer’s recommendations for
   climate-controlled storage.

   506.3. Narcotics and other controlled substances shall be stored and
   maintained in accordance with District and federal laws and regulations.

   506.4. Medications and medication kits shall not be maintained past their
   expiration date.

   506.5. Medications and medication kits shall be removed from vehicles and
   stored in a properly maintained and locked secure area when the vehicle is not
   in use, unless the ambient temperature of the vehicle’s medication storage
   compartment is maintained in accordance with the Department of Health’s
   (DOH) climate requirements.

   506.6. Medication and medication kits shall be stored in the vehicle in
   accordance with § 511 of this chapter.

   506.7. An Emergency Medical Services Agency, in addition to other applicable
   regulatory reporting requirements, shall notify the Director in writing of any
   diversion, loss, theft, or tampering with any controlled substance, medication
   delivery system, or other regulated medical device from the agency’s
   facility or vehicle. Notification shall be made no later than seventy-two (72)
   hours after the discovery of the occurrence.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Rules of the Board of Public Welfare issued July 28, 1950; as amended
   on September 29, 1950; and by Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 8542
   (December 4, 1998); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16569
   (December 6, 2013).
