                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION COURSE STANDARDS (§ 29-543)

543.1. No person shall offer an EMS certification, refresher, or continuing
   education course in the District unless:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The person is certified by the District as an EMS educational institution; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The person is certified by the District as an Emergency Medical Services
   Agency authorized to instruct continuing education; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	The course has been approved by the Director.

   543.2. A District-certified EMS educational institution certified at the ALS
   educational level may offer both ALS and BLS courses.

   543.3. A District-certified EMS educational institution may sponsor an agency
   or individual that wishes to provide a single course, class, or activity.

   543.4. When two (2) or more educational institutions co-sponsor a course, only
   one (1) approved educational institution provider number shall be used for
   that course.  The educational institution whose number is used shall assume
   the responsibility for meeting all applicable requirements of this section.

   543.5. The sponsoring educational institution shall ensure that the course,
   class, or activity meets all requirements and shall serve as the educational
   institution provider of record.

   543.6. In order to receive District approval of an EMS course and be eligible
   for NREMT testing (if applicable), an EMS educational institution or Emergency
   Medical Services Agency shall file an application with the Director.  The
   application shall include the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Program director;
   
   
   
   (b)	Course title;
   
   
   
   (c)	Course type;
   
   
   
   (d)	Certification level;
   
   
   
   (e)	Course start and end dates;
   
   
   
   (f)	A listing of District-approved course curriculum or curricula to be used;
   and
   
   
   
   (g)	A listing of instructor(s) to be used.

   543.7. A course application shall be filed at least thirty (30) days before
   the educational institution intends to start teaching the course.

   543.8. All course applications submitted to the Director shall be assigned a
   course tracking number.  The tracking number:
   
   
   
   (a)	Shall be used in all correspondence related to the certification course;
   
   
   
   (b)	Shall appear on the students’ records and course completion
   certificates; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	Shall be assigned regardless if the certification course is approved or
   denied.

   543.9. The District may revoke or deny credit for any certification,
   refresher, or CE course when the course or curriculum does not meet the
   requirements set forth in this chapter.
   
   
   
   543.10 	An EMS educational course taught in the District that the Director has
   not approved shall be reported to:
   
   
   
   	(a)	NREMT to revoke credit for the course;
   
   
   
   (b)	CECBEMS if the course utilized a CECBEMS course or curriculum; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The state EMS offices of any non-District provider who was in attendance.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16569 (December 6, 2013).
