                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES AGENCY VEHICLES[COLON] NON-TRANSPORT VEHICLES (§
29-511)

511.1 	An emergency medical response vehicle maintained and operated for
   response to the location of a medical emergency to provide immediate medical
   care at the basic or advanced life support level, but not to provide patient
   transport, shall be certified as a non-transport emergency medical response
   vehicle. Such vehicles would include fire apparatus, response cars, and other
   non-transport vehicles, but does not include air or watercraft.

   511.2. A non-transport EMS vehicle shall be certified pursuant to § 510 of
   this chapter.

   511.3. A non-transport EMS vehicle shall not be used for the transportation of
   patients except in the case of unstable or potentially unstable patients when
   there is no transport unit immediately available. In such an event, the
   circumstances of the call shall be documented by the Emergency Medical
   Services Agency and reported to the Director within seventy-two (72) hours.

   511.4. A non-transport emergency medical response vehicle shall be constructed
   to provide sufficient space for the safe storage of the equipment and supplies
   required by this chapter.

   511.5. A non-transport emergency medical response vehicle used for advanced
   life support shall have a locking storage compartment or approved locking
   bracket for the security of medications and medication kits within the vehicle
   interior, locked compartment, or trunk, which shall be inaccessible to the
   public.  When not in use, medications and medication kits shall be kept locked
   in the required storage compartment or approved bracket at all times.

   511.6. A non-transport emergency medical response vehicle shall have a motor
   vehicle safety inspection performed by the District of Columbia Department of
   Motor Vehicles after the completion of its conversion to a non-transport
   emergency medical response vehicle and before an application for a
   non-transport emergency medical response vehicle certificate is submitted.

   511.7. Each non-transport emergency medical response vehicle shall be equipped
   with not less than twenty (20) triage tags.
   
   
   
   511.8 	A non-transport emergency medical response vehicle certificate shall be
   issued if all of the following conditions are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	All information contained in the application is complete;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The applicant is a certified District Emergency Medical Services Agency;
   
   
   
   (c)	The vehicle is registered by the motor vehicle agency for the
   jurisdiction from which the vehicle will operate; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The vehicle meets the minimum requirements as provided in this chapter.

   511.9. The Director shall issue two (2) decals with each non-transport
   emergency medical response vehicle certificate.
   
   
   
   511.10 	The decals, which indicate when the certificate expires, shall be
   affixed in prominent places on the front and rear of the vehicle.

   511.11. The certificate shall be kept on file either at the place from which
   the non-transport emergency medical response vehicle operates or other
   designated place of the Emergency Medical Services Agency.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 8542 (December 4, 1998); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16569 (December 6, 2013).
