                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN INSTRUCTOR STANDARDS (§ 29-539)

539.1 	Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) courses shall be taught by:
   
   
   
   (a) 	District-certified EMT instructors;
   
   
   
   (b)	EMT instructor trainees under the supervision of a District-certified EMT
   instructor; or
   
   
   
   (c)	District-certified Advanced Emergency Medical Services (AEMS) instructors.
   
   
   
   539.2 		An EMT instructor who is not an AEMS instructor shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Maintain a valid District EMT or greater provider certification or
   license, to include but not limited to Advanced Emergency Medical Technician,
   Emergency Medical Technician-Intermediate, Paramedic, Nurse, or Physician;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Maintain a valid instructor certification in a related discipline, such as
   CPR;
   
   
   
   (c)	Successfully complete a competency-based evaluation based on current
   District policy; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Submit a completed EMT instructor application signed by the medical
   director verifying successful evaluations and practice teaching dates to the
   Director.
   
   
   
   539.3 	EMT instructor certification shall not exceed two (2) years and shall
   be concurrent with the sponsoring EMS educational institution’s
   certification period.
   
   
   
   539.4 		In order to remain in good standing during the two (2) year
   certification period, an EMT Instructor shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Successfully complete a competency-based evaluation based on current
   District policy;
   
   
   
   (b)	Maintain a current District EMS provider certification or license at the
   EMT level or greater, to include but not limited to Advanced Emergency Medical
   Technician, Emergency Medical Technician-Intermediate, Paramedic, Nurse, or
   Physician;
   
   
   
   (c)	Attend EMT instructor workshops as required; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Submit to the Director a completed EMT instructor application signed by
   the medical director verifying competency evaluations and teaching dates.

   539.5. If the educational institution’s medical director approves, the EMT
   may also function as the EMT Program director.
   
   
   
   539.6   	An EMT instructor whose certification has expired may apply to the
   Director for reinstatement within two (2) years of expiration.
   
   
   
   539.7 	An EMT instructor reinstatement candidate shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Maintain a valid District EMT or greater provider certification or
   license, to include but not limited to Advanced Emergency Medical Technician,
   Emergency Medical Technician-Intermediate, Paramedic, Nurse, or Physician;
   
   
   
   (b)	Successfully complete a competency-based evaluation based on current
   District policy; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Submit a completed EMT instructor application signed by the medical
   director verifying successful evaluations and teaching dates to the Director
   at the end of the interim teaching period.

   539.8. EMT instructor certification shall not exceed two (2) years and shall
   be concurrent with the sponsoring EMS educational institution’s
   certification period.
   
   
   
   539.9 	An EMT instructor whose certification has lapsed for more than two (2)
   years shall be required to meet initial EMT instructor requirements.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16569 (December 6, 2013).
