                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE CONTINUING EDUCATION COURSE STANDARDS (ยง 29-546)

546.1. The Director shall approve all continuing education (CE) courses that
   are intended for renewal of NREMT certification prior to the course being
   offered. CE courses that are taught in the District of Columbia prior to the
   course being approved will not be approved retroactively.

   546.2. A CE course taught in the District of Columbia shall be in a topic
   contained in the respective NREMT Re-registration Policies and Procedures.

   546.3. The Director shall determine the total number of CE credit hours for an
   approved CE course taught in the District of Columbia.  CE credit hours shall
   be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Based on District of Columbia-approved curricula; and
   
   
   
   (b)	CECBEMS-approved curricula.
   
   
   
   546.4 	Classes or activities taught in the District of Columbia for which CE
   credit is authorized shall be at least one (1) CE credit hour in duration. 
   For CE courses greater than one (1) CE credit hour, credit may be granted in
   no less than half (1/2)-hour increments.

   546.5. A person may offer a continuing education course if the course has a
   current approval from the CECBEMS.  The educational institution or Emergency
   Medical Services Agency shall submit a course application along with a copy of
   the CECBEMS approval documentation so that a course number can be assigned.

   546.6. Courses and activities that shall not be applied towards the continuing
   education hours requirement include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Clinical rotations;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Cardiopulmonary resuscitation;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Home study programs;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Instructor courses;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Management and leadership courses;
   
   
   
   (f) 	Performance of duty;
   
   
   
   (g)	Preceptor hours;
   
   
   
   (h) 	Serving as a skill examiner; and
   
   
   
   (i) 	Volunteer time with agencies.

   546.7. The educational institution or Emergency Medical Services Agency shall
   submit a separate application for each CE course.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16569 (December 6, 2013).
