                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES AGENCY VEHICLES[COLON] CERTIFICATIONS (§ 29-510)

510.1. No ground ambulance or emergency medical response vehicle shall be
   operated in the District of Columbia (except in response to a mutual aid
   agreement or as otherwise authorized by the Mayor or Director) unless it has a
   valid certification issued pursuant to this chapter and is operated by a
   certified Emergency Medical Services Agency.
   
   
   
   510.2 	Before receiving a certification for an ambulance or emergency medical
   response vehicle, an applicant shall submit to the Director the following
   information for each vehicle:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The name and address of the applicant and the owner of the vehicle;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A description of the vehicle, including the make; model number; year of
   manufacture; vehicle identification number; vehicle license tag number; length
   of time the vehicle has been in use; and the color scheme, insignia, name,
   monogram, or other distinguishing characteristics to be used to designate the
   vehicle;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The address of the location from which the vehicle will operate; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Other information that the Director deems reasonably necessary to determine
   compliance with this chapter.
   
   
   
   510.3 	Before receiving a certification for a ground ambulance, an applicant
   shall submit the following additional information to the Director for each
   ground ambulance:
   
   
   
   
   
   The location of the Certificate of Star–of-Life Ambulance, identifying
   compliance with Federal Specification for the Star-of-Life Ambulance
   KKK-A-1822 at the time the ambulance was manufactured; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The location of the certificate attesting that the ambulance was in compliance
   with NFPA 1917 “Standard for Automotive Ambulances” at the time the
   ambulance was manufactured.
   
   
   
   510.4 	No certification for a ground ambulance shall be issued unless the
   Director finds that the ambulance is, and will be at all times when in use as
   an ambulance:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Built and equipped in accordance with the certification specified in § 510.3
   above at the time the ambulance was manufactured;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Equipped with the mandatory items specified in the Equipment for Ambulances
   joint document published by the American College of Surgeons (ACS), the
   American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP), and the National Association
   of Emergency Medical Services Physicians (NAEMSP); or DOH required equipment
   list.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Covered by insurance of a kind and in amounts conforming to the standards set
   forth by the Director pursuant to § 502 of this chapter; provided that this
   requirement shall not apply to ambulances owned and operated by an agency of
   the District government; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Equipped in compliance with these regulations at all times unless the
   ambulance is out of service.

   510.5. Each ambulance shall be equipped with not less than twenty (20) triage
   tags.
   
   
   
   510.6 	The District EMS Officer or designee shall inspect all ground
   ambulances for compliance with the vehicle requirements for the class in which
   a certification is sought.
   
   
   
   510.7 	A ground ambulance vehicle certificate shall be issued if all of the
   following conditions are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	All information contained in the application is complete;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The applicant is a certified District Emergency Medical Services Agency;
   
   
   
   (c)	The ambulance is registered by the motor vehicle agency for the
   jurisdiction from which the vehicle will operate; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The ambulance meets the minimum requirements as provided in this chapter.
   
   
   
   510.8 	The Director shall issue two (2) decals with each ambulance
   certificate.
   
   
   
   510.9 	The decals, which indicate that the ambulance has been certified by the
   Director and the date on which the certification expires, shall be affixed in
   prominent places on the front and rear of the ambulance.

   510.10. The certificate shall be kept on file either at the place from which
   the ambulance operates or other designated place of the Emergency Medical
   Services Agency.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 29 DCR 732 (February 12, 1982); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16569 (December 6, 2013).
