                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMS PROVIDERS[COLON] INACTIVE STATUS (ยง 29-522)

522.1. Inactive certification may be granted to EMS providers certified as an
   Emergency Medical Responder, Emergency Medical Technician, Advanced Emergency
   Medical Technician, Emergency Medical Technician-Intermediate, and Paramedic
   who are not actively providing patient care and are:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Educators, administrators, or regulators who are not actively involved in
   patient care;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Students who have completed their initial certification training but are not
   affiliated with an Emergency Medical Services Agency; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not actively providing patient care because of relocation, illness, pursuit of
   education, family responsibilities, military duty, or another reason that the
   Director determines.
   
   
   
   522.2  	To be eligible for inactive status, a provider shall meet all
   certification requirements except skills verification.
   
   
   
   522.3   	A provider may only request inactive status during his or her first
   recertification cycle if he or she has performed the duties of an EMS provider
   for at least six (6) months.

   522.4. A provider shall reapply for inactive status biennially, prior to the
   expiration of his or her current inactive certification, if he or she wishes
   to continue his or her District certification.

   522.5. A provider who has an inactive National Registry certification shall
   only qualify for an inactive District certification.
   
   
   
   522.6 	A provider who has an active National Registry certification may
   request an inactive District certification.
   
   
   
   522.7  	An inactive provider who seeks to return to active status shall submit
   a complete application package to the Director and shall demonstrate skills
   competency in accordance with current NREMT policy and affiliation with an EMS
   agency that shall be verified in writing.

   522.8. The fee for an inactive certification shall be the same as for its
   equivalent active level.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Rules of the Board of Public Welfare issued July 28, 1950; as amended
   on September 29, 1950; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR
   16569 (December 6, 2013).
