                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADVANCED EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES INSTRUCTOR STANDARDS (§ 29-540)

540.1 	Advanced Emergency Medical Technician (AEMT) courses, Emergency Medical
Technician-Intermediate (EMT-I) courses, and Paramedic courses shall be taught
by:



(a) 	District-certified Advanced Emergency Medical Services (AEMS) instructors;
or



(b)	AEMS instructor trainees under the supervision of a District-certified AEMS
instructor.



540.2 		A candidate for AEMS instructor shall:



(a)	Maintain a valid District Paramedic or greater certification or license, to
include but not limited to Nurse or Physician;







Maintain a valid  instructor certification in a related ALS discipline, such as
Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) or Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS);



(c)	Successfully complete a competency-based evaluation based on current
District policy; and



(d)	Submit to the Director at the end of the interim teaching a completed AEMS
instructor application signed by the medical director verifying successful
evaluations and practice teaching dates.



540.3 	Certification as an AEMS instructor shall not exceed two (2) years and
shall be concurrent with the sponsoring EMS educational institution’s
certification period.



540.4 	In order to remain in good standing during the two (2) year period of
approval an AEMS Instructor shall:



(a)	Maintain current District EMS provider certification or license at the
Paramedic level or greater, to include but not limited to Nurse or Physician;



(b)	Successfully complete a competency-based evaluation based on current
District policy;



(c)	Attend AEMS instructor workshops as required; and



(d)	Submit to the Director a completed AEMS instructor application signed by the
medical director verifying successful evaluations and teaching dates.



540.5 	If the educational institution’s medical director approves, the AEMS
instructor may also function as the AEMS program director.



540.6 	An AEMS instructor whose certification has expired may apply to the
Director for reinstatement within two (2) years of expiration.



540.7 	An applicant for reinstatement as an AEMS instructor shall:



(a)	Be certified or licensed as a District Paramedic or greater provider, to
include but not limited to Nurse or Physician;



(b)	Successfully complete a competency-based evaluation based on current
District policy; and



(c)	Submit a completed AEMS instructor application showing successful
evaluations from practice teaching.



540.8 	An AEMS instructor certification shall not exceed two (2) years and shall
be concurrent with the sponsoring EMS educational institution’s certification
period.



540.9   	An AEMS instructor whose certification has lapsed for more than two (2)
years shall be required to meet initial AEMS instructor requirements.





SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16569 (December 6, 2013).
