                                  DC REGULATIONS

CERTIFICATE OF COURSE COMPLETION (§ 29-547)

547.1. An educational program shall issue to each successful participant a
   certificate or proof of successful completion of a course no later than thirty
   (30) calendar days after completion of the course.
   
   
   
   547.2   	A certification course completion certificate or documentation of
   successful completion shall contain:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The name of the participant;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The course title and DOH-assigned course number;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The length of the course in total hours;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The name of the sponsoring educational institution and its DOH EMS educational
   institution number;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The course completion date;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program director’s signature; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The medical director’s signature.

   547.3. A refresher or CE course completion certificate or documentation of
   successful completion shall contain:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The name of participant and his or her NREMT, State, or District EMS
   certification number;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The course title and DOH-assigned course number;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The total number of hours of continuing education awarded;
   
   
   
   (d)	The educational institution or Emergency Medical Services Agency name,
   address, and DOH EMS educational institution number or Emergency Medical
   Services Agency number;
   
   
   
   (e)	The date(s) of the course, class, or activity;
   
   
   
   (f)	The program director’s signature; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The medical director’s signature.

   547.4. If a refresher or CE course is used to satisfy the requirements for
   maintaining an EMS provider’s certification, the refresher and CE course
   shall be completed during the current certification cycle, and the provider
   shall submit the CE certificate to NREMT in accordance with its policies in
   effect at the time of submission.

   547.5. No person shall receive credit for taking the same refresher or CE
   course, class, or activity more than once during a single certification or
   licensure cycle.

   547.6. An instructor may receive credit for instructing a certification,
   refresher, or CE course. Credit received shall be the same as the number of CE
   hours approved for the course, class, or activity.
   
   
   
   547.7 	The instructor shall receive credit only once during a certification
   cycle for instructing the same CE course, class, or activity.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16569 (December 6, 2013).
