                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION STANDARDS (§ 29-527)

527.1. No person shall provide EMS certification education, continuing
   education, or refresher education in the District without being certified as
   an EMS educational institution pursuant to this chapter.
   
   
   
   527.2 	Each EMS educational institution shall obtain approval from the
   Director prior to offering a course of study.
   
   
   
   527.3 	In order to be state approved for purposes of the NREMT, an educational
   institution shall obtain approval under this chapter.
   
   
   
   527.4 	Paramedic educational institutions shall be accredited through the
   Committee on Accreditation of Educational Programs for the Emergency Medical
   Services Professions (CoAEMSP) after January 1, 2013.

   527.5. In order to receive certification as an EMS educational institution, an
   applicant shall submit to the Director an application indicating compliance
   with §§ 527 through 531.
   
   
   
   527.6 	Each education program shall have adequate space at facilities to
   accommodate the program.
   
   
   
   527.7 	Each education program shall have sufficient financial resources to
   ensure complete course delivery for all enrolled students.
   
   
   
   527.8 	An EMS educational institution that is not part of the District of
   Columbia government or a component of an accredited institution of higher
   learning shall be licensed through the District of Columbia Education
   Licensure Commission (ELC) in addition to being certified by the Director.

   527.9. After review of the application, the EMS educational institution shall
   be subject to a site visit as part of the certification process. The site
   visit is to verify the information contained in the application.

   527.10. Each EMS educational institution, its equipment, all associated
   records, and the premises designated in its application shall be available for
   inspection by the District EMS Officer or designee during the usual hours of
   operation.
   
   
   
   527.11 	The Director may subject any EMS educational institution certified
   under this chapter to an unscheduled inspection to determine compliance with
   certification standards.

   527.12. Each education program shall have written criteria for:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Admission;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Multiple evaluations of each student during the course of study including
   evaluation of competency in providing patient care;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Student requirements for:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Attendance;  and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Educational performance, including:
   
   
   
   (A)	Attitudes;
   
   
   
   (B)	Knowledge; and
   
   
   
   (C)	Behavior;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Student access to program information including:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Fees;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Requirements;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Policies and procedures;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The student handbook; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Support services;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Selection of:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A medical director;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A program director;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Faculty; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Other necessary personnel;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Nondiscrimination and fair practices with regard to students, faculty, and
   program personnel;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Review and improvement of the effectiveness of student evaluation techniques;
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   HIPAA privacy training.
   
   
   
   527.13 	Each education program shall require that each student wear some type
   of distinctive identification during his or her field and clinical internship.
    The identification shall clearly identify the:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Student’s name;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Student’s status; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Education program.
   
   
   
   527.14 	Each education program shall maintain an organizational chart that
   shows the relationships among students, the program director, the medical
   director, and the instructors for each course.
   
   
   
   527.15 	Each education program shall maintain accurate and appropriate records
   of:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Students;
   
   
   
   (b)	Faculty;
   
   
   
   (c)	   Courses, including:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Course statistics as specified in DOH policy; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Demographics of students; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Written agreements with facilities and agencies that provide clinical and
   field experience, which shall include:
   
   
   
   (1)	Liability policies;
   
   
   
   (2)	Scope of practice for the student;
   
   
   
   (3)	Evaluation criteria; and
   
   
   
   (4)	The responsibility for and level of supervision of students.
   
   
   
   527.16 	The education program shall maintain records at least five (5) years
   following course completion in a manner to prevent loss, destruction, or
   unauthorized use.
   
   
   
   527.17 	Each education program shall teach the appropriate curriculum which
   shall include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Didactic instruction which shall impart fundamental knowledge, skills, and
   attitudes which contribute to the delivery of state-of-the-art pre-hospital
   emergency medical care; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Supervised field internships that include practice of skills while functioning
   in a pre-hospital environment.
   
   
   
   527.18 	Training programs may utilize distance education for cognitive
   components of initial training leading to EMS provider certification if the
   program:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Demonstrates the methods of distance education utilized are educationally and
   technically appropriate for the content and audience; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Ensures the quality of the distance education method, including:
   
   
   
   (1)	Stating the educational objectives clearly; and
   
   
   
   (2) 	Offer sufficiently comprehensive, accurate, up-to-date, educationally
   sound instructional materials.
   
   
   
   527.19 	Each EMS educational institution shall maintain written agreements and
   position descriptions stating the roles and responsibilities of the following
   program positions:
   
   (a)	Medical director;
   
   (b)	Program director; and
   
   (c)	EMS instructors.
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16569 (December 6, 2013).
