                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES AGENCIES[COLON] RECORDS (§ 29-507)

507.1. An Emergency Medical Services Agency shall maintain records that
   include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Approved patient care report forms;
   
   
   
   (b)	Employee or member rosters;
   
   
   
   (c)	Time sheets;
   
   
   
   (d)	Call rosters;
   
   
   
   (e)	Training records;
   
   
   
   (f)	Dispatch logs, which shall include:
   
   
   
   (1)	The type of call;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The time the call was received;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The time the call was dispatched;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The time that personnel responded;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The time that personnel arrived on the scene;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The time that transport service was requested (for non-transport response
   agencies);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The time that transport of the patient to the hospital began (if applicable);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The time the patient arrived at the hospital (if applicable);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The time that personnel returned to service; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The disposition of the call.

   507.2. An Emergency Medical Services Agency shall prepare and securely
   maintain records at its principal place of operations or a secured storage
   facility for not less than six (6) years and shall make the records available
   for inspection by the Director.

   507.3. Records shall be stored in a manner that ensures reasonable safety from
   water and fire damage and from unauthorized disclosure.

   507.4. An Emergency Medical Services Agency shall supply copies of records to
   the Director upon request.

   507.5. An Emergency Medical Services Agency that fails to make its records
   available for inspection by the DOH, or fails to provide copies of records to
   the Director upon request, may be subject to fines, suspension, or termination
   of certification to operate an Emergency Medical Services Agency.

   507.6. An Emergency Medical Services Agency shall maintain a current personnel
   record for each individual provider affiliated with the agency.  The personnel
   record shall include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A copy of the provider’s current National Registry of Emergency Medical
   Technicians (NREMT) certification;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A copy of the provider’s current DOH certification;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A copy of the provider’s current cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) card;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A copy of the provider’s current Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) card
   (if applicable); and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A copy of training records and qualifications for the positions held.

   507.7. An Emergency Medical Services Agency shall provide a roster showing
   each provider’s name, address, e-mail address, NREMT certification number,
   and DOH certification number to the Director annually, as part of the
   agency’s annual report, due no earlier than January 1 and not later than
   March 1 of each year.

   507.8. If an Emergency Medical Services Agency operates an emergency response
   vehicle, the agency shall maintain each vehicle currently in use in accordance
   with the manufacturer’s recommendations for preventative maintenance.

   507.9. If an Emergency Medical Services Agency operates an emergency response
   vehicle, the agency shall maintain records on each vehicle currently in use. 
   The vehicle records shall include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Maintenance records demonstrating adherence to the manufacturer’s
   recommendations for preventative maintenance;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A valid vehicle registration;
   
   
   
   (c)	A vehicle inspection certificate;
   
   
   
   (d)	Proof of vehicle insurance coverage; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Reports of any collision involving the vehicle.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Rules of the Board of Public Welfare issued July 28, 1950; as amended
   on September 29, 1950; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR
   16569 (December 6, 2013).
