                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES AGENCIES[COLON] MEDICAL DIRECTORS (§ 29-504)

504.1. The medical director of a certified Emergency Medical Services Agency
   shall be responsible for maintaining the quality of the patient care provided
   by the Emergency Medical Services Agency and of ensuring that the Emergency
   Medical Services Agency engages in adequate quality assurance activities,
   including:
   
   
   
   (a)	Initial and continuing education training;
   
   
   
   (b)	The establishment and maintenance of policies and procedures covering the
   operations, training, and quality oversight of the agency;
   
   
   
   (c)	A requirement that the medical director or his or her designee review
   patient care reports in accordance with their quality assurance and
   improvement plan as outlined in § 556 of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (d)	 A requirement that the medical director or his or her designee review
   field communications recordings in accordance with their quality assurance and
   improvement plan as outlined in § 556;
   
   
   
   (e)	A requirement that the medical director or his or her designee perform
   post-run interviews and case conferences in accordance with their quality
   assurance and improvement plan as outlined in § 556;
   
   
   
   (f)	Investigations of all complaints; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The establishment and enforcement of pre-hospital medical care and
   treatment protocols to be used by EMS providers working under their
   supervision as members of the Emergency Medical Services Agency.

   504.2. The medical director shall serve as the medical authority for the
   certified Emergency Medical Services Agency and shall serve as the liaison of
   the Emergency Medical Services Agency with the medical community, medical
   facilities, and governmental entities.

   504.3. The medical director shall have authority sufficient to oversee the
   quality of patient care for all EMS providers within the agency.  The medical
   director:
   
   
   
   (a)	May withdraw, at his or her discretion, the authorization for personnel to
   perform any or all patient care procedures;
   
   
   
   (b)	Shall notify the District EMS Officer using the appropriate form of any
   provider whose authorization to render care has been withdrawn within
   seventy-two (72) hours of the withdrawal; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Shall also notify any other known EMS agency that sponsors the provider
   within seventy-two (72) hours of the withdrawal of authorization.

   504.4. The medical director shall establish and maintain the agency’s
   protocols and authorized drug list.  The medical director shall sign and date
   the protocols and the authorized drug list.

   504.5. An Emergency Medical Services Agency shall notify the Director of any
   change in the medical director of the agency no fewer than thirty (30) days
   prior to the change and no later than fifteen (15) days after naming a
   replacement.

   504.6. An emergency or temporary change of the medical director shall be
   reported as follows:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   When an agency’s medical director is unable to serve because of emergency
   circumstances, such as death or critical illness, the agency shall notify the
   Director within two (2) business days and shall further notify the Director
   upon naming a replacement; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   When there is a temporary change of less than one (1) year, such as for a
   military commitment, the agency shall notify the Director no later than
   fifteen (15) days after naming a replacement.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Rules of the Board of Public Welfare issued July 28, 1950; as amended
   on September 29, 1950; and by Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 8542
   (December 4, 1998); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16569
   (December 6, 2013).
