                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR REFUND (ยง 18-3101)

3101.1. An application for a refund shall include, at a minimum, the following
   basic background information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The applicant&#8217;s name;
   
   
   
   (b)	The applicant&#8217;s address and telephone number;
   
   
   
   (c)	Proof that the applicant is either the owner of the vehicle that gave rise
   to the civil penalty and associated costs for which a refund is sought, or
   that the applicant is the legally authorized representative of the owner
   pursuant to a power of attorney, appointment as the executor or administrator
   the owner&#8217;s estate, or because the applicant is the parent or legal
   guardian of an owner who is a minor);
   
   
   
   (d)	A description of the vehicle, including make, model, color, and
   jurisdiction in which the vehicle is registered, and license plate or tag
   number; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Proof reasonably acceptable to the Director of DPW of payment of the civil
   penalty and any associated booting, towing, and storage fees for which a
   refund is sought.

   3101.2. An applicant applying for a refund shall identify which of the
   following reasons is the basis for the request, and provide the applicable
   information needed to verify the applicant&#8217;s eligibility for a refund:
   
   
   
   (a)	The vehicle was stolen at the time that it was subject to seizure and
   impoundment, in which case the application shall include a copy of a police
   report showing that the vehicle was reported stolen at that time;
   
   
   
   (b)	The charges upon which the impoundment was based were dropped for reasons
   other than an entry of a nolle prosequi or because the defendant completed a
   diversion program, in which case the application shall include the case
   number, a copy of any paperwork issued by the prosecutor or the court in
   connection with the case being dropped, and the name of the Assistant United
   States Attorney or Assistant Attorney General assigned to the case;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Superior Court of the District of Columbia dismissed the case, upon
   which the impoundment was based, on the merits, in which case the application
   shall include the case number, a copy of any paperwork issued by the Court in
   connection with the dismissal, and the name of the judge to whom the case was
   assigned; or
   
   
   
   (d)	The person who was charged with a prostitution-related crime, upon which
   the impoundment of the vehicle was based, was acquitted, in which case the
   application shall include the case number and a copy of any paperwork issued
   by the Court in connection with the acquittal.

   3101.3. If the information provided pursuant to subsection 3101.2 fails to
   demonstrate an applicant&#8217;s eligibility for a refund, the Director of DPW
   may require additional information from or to be provided on behalf of an
   applicant in order to determine whether or not the applicant is entitled to a
   refund.

   3101.4. The Director of DPW may prescribe a form to be used by any applicant
   requesting a refund under this chapter.

   3101.5. All applications for refunds under this chapter shall be reviewed by
   the Director of DPW or his or her designee.

   3101.6. If the Director of DPW or his or her designee decides that the
   applicant is eligible for a refund, then he or she shall calculate the amount
   of the refund and ask the Chief Financial Officer to issue a refund to the
   applicant.

   3101.7. If the Director of DPW or his or her designee decides that the
   applicant is not eligible for a refund, then he or she shall notify the
   applicant, in writing, of his or her decision and the reason for that
   decision.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 3687 (May 8, 2009).
