                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRELIMINARY GRANT PROPOSAL AND APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF
CONSUMER AND REGULATORY AFFAIRS (ยง 21-1301)

1301.1. Any university or institution wishing to perform the solicited work
   shall submit a preliminary proposal for a grant. The preliminary proposal
   shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the university or institution submitting the preliminary
   proposal;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name and resume of the principal investigator;
   
   
   
   (c)	The name and a description of the main components of the project; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The estimated total funding requested.

   1301.2. The Director of DCRA shall review the preliminary proposal, and make
   an initial selection of those to be considered for funding, and request the
   submission of an application.

   1301.3. An application for a grant shall consist of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A request for a grant for the proposed work, signed by the principal
   investigator and the head of the institution or his or her representative;
   
   
   
   (b)	A complete proposal for which the grant is sought;
   
   
   
   (c)	Proof of the institution&#8217;s non-profit status, if requested by the
   Director of DCRA; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) certification by the institution,
   if requested by the Director of DCRA.

   1301.4. The complete proposal for the grant shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The names and resumes of all investigators to be involved in the project;
   
   
   
   (b)	A detailed work plan;
   
   
   
   (c)	A quality assurance plan if sampling and analysis are to be performed;
   
   
   
   (d)	A work schedule;
   
   
   
   (e)	Details of the involvement of subcontractors;
   
   
   
   (f)	Detailed budget estimate including personnel, equipment, supplies, travel,
   contractual and indirect costs;
   
   
   
   (g)	A payment schedule;
   
   
   
   (h)	A signed concurrence from the university;
   
   
   
   (i)	The name and address to which payments shall be made;
   
   
   
   (j)	The type of technical or personnel assistance that the grantee will
   require from DCRA; and
   
   
   
   (k)	The period for which the proposal is valid.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3528, 3529 (May 13, 1988).
