                                  DC REGULATIONS

GRANT AWARD (ยง 21-1303)

1303.1. The procedure for awarding grants shall be applicable to both DCRA and
   DPW. The Director of the appropriate Department shall review the applications
   and make a determination of those to be funded based upon the following
   criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	Availability of funds;
   
   
   
   (b)	Completeness of the application and responsiveness to the grant notice;
   
   
   
   (c)	Priority of the work;
   
   
   
   (d)	Reasonableness of the costs;
   
   
   
   (e)	Expertise to perform the work;
   
   
   
   (f)	Whether the university or institution is District based;
   
   
   
   (g)	Submission of all required documents in a timely manner;
   
   
   
   (h)	Any federal requirements associated with the funds; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Other factors, as identified in writing by the Director of the appropriate
   Department prior to grant award.

   1303.2. All grants shall be made pursuant to a written agreement. The Director
   shall send a grant agreement to the designated representative of the
   institution. The agreement shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The purpose of the project;
   
   
   
   (b)	The amount of the grant award;
   
   
   
   (c)	The term of the project and any conditions, statutes, rules or regulations
   with which the grant recipient must comply;
   
   
   
   (d)	The scope of work for the grant, a description of all deliverables
   required under the grant, and a schedule specifying when all deliverables are
   to be provided to the Department;
   
   
   
   (e)	The name of the grant administrator for the appropriate Department and the
   name of the agent for the grant recipient;
   
   
   
   (f)	The names of all personnel assigned to perform the work required by the
   grant agreement, including the names of the subcontractor&#8217;s employees;
   
   
   
   (g)	A payment schedule; and
   
   
   
   (h)	The address to which all written communications from the Department to the
   grant recipient may be sent, including, but not limited to, the periodic
   payments due under the grant.

   1303.3. The Director may consider unsolicited proposals, but may give
   preference to solicited proposals for grant award.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3528, 3531 (May 13, 1988).
