                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 17-9399)

9399.1. As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
   ascribed:
   
   Abuse &#8211; any willful or reckless act or omission that causes or is likely
   to cause or contribute to, or which caused or is likely to have caused or
   contributed to, physical or emotional injury, death, or financial exploitation
   of a client.
   
   
   
   Activities of daily living &#8211; self-care activities which a person
   performs independently, when able, to sustain personal needs or to participate
   in society.
   
   
   
   Applicant &#8211; a person applying for a certification to practice as an HHA.
   
   
   
   Board &#8211; the Board of Nursing, established by § 204 of the Act, D.C.
   Official Code § 3-1202.04 (2012 Supp.). 
   
   Clinical activities &#8211; faculty-planned and guided learning activities
   designed to assist students in meeting course objectives and to apply nursing
   knowledge and skills in the direct care of clients, including clinical
   conferences, planned learning activities in community facilities and
   residences, and other resources.  Clinical activities shall not include skills
   lab activities.
   
   
   
   Clinical preceptor &#8211; an individual meeting the requirements of this
   chapter who is an employee of a clinical agency and works with a trainee in a
   clinical setting to facilitate student learning in a manner specified in a
   signed written agreement between the agency and the educational institution.
   
   Clinical preceptorship &#8211; an organized system of clinical experiences
   which allows an HHA trainee to be paired with a clinical preceptor for the
   purpose of attaining specific learning objectives.
   
   Conditional approval &#8211; the approval status that is granted for a time
   period specified by the Board to an HHA training program to correct
   deficiencies when the training program has failed to meet or maintain the
   requirements and standards of this chapter.
   
   
   
   Continuing education &#8211; systematic learning experiences designed to
   augment the knowledge, skills, and attitudes of the HHA. Content of continuing
   education reflects current and emerging concepts, principles, practices,
   theories, and nursing related research, information beyond that which is
   taught in the training program. Continuing education is not basic skill
   training, competency training, local policy administrative procedures
   training, or update briefings.
   
   
   
   Direct supervision &#8211; supervision in which the supervisor is physically
   present and accessible in the immediate client area and is available to
   intervene if necessary.
   
   
   
   Director – Director of the D.C. Department of Health.
   
   Education Licensure Commission – Mayoral appointed regulatory, consumer
   protection authority responsible for public protection with regard to
   legitimate quality education in the District of Columbia. The Commission
   establishes standards for postsecondary educational operations, authorizes
   operations, approves programs, issues or denies licenses to, and oversees all
   private postsecondary educational institutions in the District of Columbia.
   The Commission is the Mayor’s only entity authorized to issue educational
   licenses and is charged with advising the Mayor and City Council with respect
   to postsecondary educational needs of the District.
   
   Endorsement &#8211; the process of issuing a certification to an HHA applicant
   who is registered or certified by a state board and recognized by the Board as
   a qualified professional according to standards that were the substantial
   equivalent at the time of the certification to the standards for that
   profession set forth in this chapter and who has continually remained in good
   standing with the Board from the date of certification until the date of
   certification in the District.
   
   
   
   General supervision &#8211; supervision in which the supervisor is available
   for consultation either in person or by a communication device, but is not
   necessarily physically present on the premises.
   
   
   
   Home health aide (HHA) &#8211; an individual, including a personal care aide
   (PCA), who as a result of training and demonstrated competencies, works under
   the supervision of a nurse or other health professional licensed in the
   District of Columbia and provides nursing or nursing related services to
   clients in a home setting or in assistive living facilities.
   
   
   
   Immediate supervision – supervision in which the supervisor is physically
   with the supervisee and is either discussing or observing the supervisee’s
   practice.
   
   In-service –  learning experiences provided in the work setting for the
   purpose of assisting staff members in performing their assigned functions in
   that particular agency or institution; and consists of activities intended to
   assist the HHA to acquire, maintain, or increase competence in fulfilling the
   assigned responsibilities specific to the expectations of the employer.
   
   Neglect – any act or omission which causes or is likely to cause or
   contribute to, or which caused or is likely to have caused or contributed to
   the injury, death, or financial exploitation of a consumer.
   
   Reinstatement – reissuance of an expired HHA certificate.
   
   Skills laboratory activities – faculty guided activities planned for
   students in a school/campus laboratory that simulates the activities provided
   by the HHA. The activities include demonstrations and return demonstrations
   using equipment and supplies that are used in the home for the purpose of
   attaining required psychomotor skills.

   9399.2. The definitions in § 4099 of chapter 40 of this title are
   incorporated by reference into and are applicable to this chapter.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8359, 8385 (July 13, 2012).
