                                  DC REGULATIONS

PERIODIC REVIEW OF APPROVED PROGRAMS (§ 17-9325)

9325.1. Programs approved by the Board to train HHAs shall submit to the Board
   an annual report in accordance with procedures set out by the Board.

   9325.2. The Board shall re-evaluate HHA training programs at least once a
   year.

   9325.3. The Board may make unannounced visits to review and assess each HHA
   training program to ensure that the program is in compliance with §§ 9327,
   	9331, and 9332.

   9325.4. The Board shall assess each training program on the basis of visits to
   the facility, the progress of the training program, annual reporting, and any
   other information deemed appropriate by the Board.

   9325.5. The Board shall withdraw approval of a training program if:
   
   
   
   (a)	It determines that the program is not in compliance with standards set
   forth in §§ 9327, 9331, and 9332;
   
   
   
   		(b) 	The program does not permit an unannounced site visit;
   
   
   
   (c)	The institution loses its license from the Education Licensure Commission;
   or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The training program has not graduated an HHA class in at least twelve (12)
   months or more.

   9325.6. If the training program does not meet the requirements for continued
   approval, the Board may grant conditional approval pending correction of the
   deficiencies for the following reasons:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program has not met or maintained the Board’s regulatory requirements;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program fails to correct the deficiencies identified by the Board within
   the allotted time period;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program fails to hire a nurse administrator for a minimum of one-half
   (0.5) FTE who meets the Board’s qualifications;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program fails to hire faculty who meet the Board’s qualifications;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program is noncompliant with the program’s stated philosophy, program
   design, objectives or outcomes, or policies;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program fails to implement the District-approved curriculum;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program fails to meet the seventy-five percent (75%) passing rate on the
   District’s competency evaluation for a period of one (1) year or more;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program fails to submit records and reports to the Board in a timely
   manner; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program is noncompliant with any of the regulations in this chapter, and
   other activities or situations, as determined by the Board that indicate the
   program is not meeting the legal requirements and standards of vocational
   education.

   9325.7. Programs placed in conditional approval status may be required to
   comply with any or all of the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Prohibit a program from admitting new students;
   
   
   
   (b)	Require the program to limit student admissions;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Reduce the frequency of classes that are offered; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any other conditions deemed necessary by the Board to assure that the program
   meets the regulatory requirements of this chapter.
   
   
   
    9325.8	Training program deficiencies sufficient to warrant withdrawal of
   approval shall include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Continued failure to fully implement the District-approved curriculum for
   the training program;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Continued failure to maintain an adequate number of instructors with required
   qualifications;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Continued failure to meet the seventy-five percent (75%) passing rate on
   the District’s competency evaluation for a period of two (2) years or more;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Continued failure of trainees to demonstrate adequate competencies upon
   employment;
   
   (e) 	Continued failure to adhere to the training program’s stated
   philosophy, objectives, and policies; or
   
   (f) 	Continued failure to maintain adequate resources, facilities, and
   services required to meet training objectives.

   9325.9. The Board may consider reinstatement or approval of a training program
   upon submission of satisfactory evidence that the program meets the standards
   set forth in this chapter.

   9325.10. The Board may investigate complaints made against a program and may
   conduct hearings in connection with such complaints.

   9325.11. Any Board action for suspension or withdrawal of a training
   program’s approval shall take place only upon notice to the program and the
   opportunity for a hearing in accordance with D.C. Official Code § 3-1205.14
   (2012 Supp.).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8359, 8374 (July 13, 2012).
