                                  DC REGULATIONS

HOME HEALTH AIDE TRAINING PROGRAM CURRICULUM (§ 17-9327)

9327.1. Core training requirements include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) – basic life support (BLS) for
   Healthcare Providers;
   
   
   
   (b)	First aid;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The role of nursing assistive personnel;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Client rights and privacy;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Legal and ethical duties, including recognition, prevention, and reporting of
   abuse or neglect;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Care sensitive to culture, religion, national origin, gender identity, and
   sexual orientation;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Interpersonal communication;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Receiving delegation and working as a member of the health care team;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Basic safety skills;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Infection prevention, including standard precautions;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Delegated nursing functions including:
   
   
   
   (1)	Taking and documenting vital signs, intake and output, and other routine
   observations;
   
   
   
   (2)	Measuring and documenting the client’s height and weight; and
   
   
   
   (3) 	Recognizing, reporting, and documenting abnormal changes in behavior or
   body functions;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Basic restorative skills, including safe transfer, ambulation, maintaining
   range of motion, and positioning;
   
   
   
   (m)	Personal care skills, including but not limited to bathing, feeding,
   hydration, skin care, dressing, grooming, and toileting;
   
   
   
   (n)	Caring for the client’s environment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Promoting the client’s independence;
   
   
   
   (p)	Measures for ensuring safety of clients at risk which include but are not
   limited to:
   
   
   
   (1)	Cognitive impairment;
   
   
   
   (2)	Sensory deficits or impairments;
   
   
   
   (3)	Communication limitations;
   
   
   
   (4)	Altered level of consciousness; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Agitation or combativeness;
   
   
   
   (q)	Working with agitated or combative clients, including techniques useful in
   the prevention of abuse;
   
   
   
   (r)	Prohibition on use of restraints;
   
   
   
   (s)	End of life care;
   
   
   
   (t)	Supporting individuals with cognitive, intellectual or developmental
   disabilities;
   
   
   
   (u)	Supporting individuals with behavioral problems;
   
   
   
   (v)	Basic emergency procedures;
   
   
   
   (w)	Preventing fatigue and burn-out;
   
   
   
   (x)	Types of abusive behavior; and
   
   
   
   (y)	Requirements of reporting incidents.

   9327.2. Training requirements specific to the role of the HHA shall 	include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Tasks and responsibilities of an HHA;
   
   
   
   (b)	Implementation of a plan of care;
   
   
   
   (c)	Legal and ethical considerations for an HHA;
   
   
   
   (d)	Respect for client property;
   
   
   
   (e)	Personal and community safety for an HHA;
   
   
   
   (f)	Delegated nursing functions:
   
   
   
   (1)	Basic restorative skills, including transfers, ambulation, range of
   motion, and positioning, that are appropriate for the home setting;
   
   
   
   (2)	Assisting with self-administration of medication;
   
   
   
   (3)	Administering an enema;
   
   (4) 	Care of ostomy including skin and changing appliance;
   
   (5)	Administering oxygen therapy; and
   
   
   
   
   
   Medication administration following medication aide certification;
   
   (g)	The foundations for working with the home care client, the family, and
   significant others of the client and home care team members, including:
   
   
   
   (1)	Family dynamics;
   
   
   
   (2)	Communication with the client, the client’s family, and significant
   others in the home setting;
   
   
   
   (3)	Dealing with barriers to communication in the home;
   
   
   
   (4)	Communication with the home care team;
   
   
   
   (5)	Maintaining relationships with the client, the client’s family, and
   significant others;
   
   
   
   (6)	Understanding basic human needs; and
   
   
   
   (7) 	Individual, family, and cultural differences;
   
   
   
   (h)	Foundations for a safe client environment, including:
   
   
   
   (1)	General home safety;
   
   
   
   (2)	Infection prevention in the home;
   
   
   
   (3)	Fire safety in the home setting;
   
   
   
   (4)	 Emergencies in the home setting;
   
   
   
   (5)	Home care considerations, including:
   
   
   
   (A)	Food and nutrition, meal planning, and meal preparation;
   
   
   
   (B)	Housekeeping, laundering, and food shopping;
   
   
   
   (C)	Maintenance of a clean, safe, and healthy environment; and
   
   
   
   (D)	Use and care of medical equipment in the home; and
   
   
   
   (6)	Simple procedures such as non-sterile dressings; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Understanding and working with various client populations in home care
   settings including:
   
   
   
   (1)	Introduction to infant and child care;
   
   
   
   (2)	Mental and physical disabilities;
   
   
   
   (3)	Chronic illness and disease conditions;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Caring for the terminal client in the home;
   
   
   
   (5)	The elderly client; and
   
   
   
   (6) 	Proper use of assistive devices, such as lifts, prosthetic, and orthotic
   devices.

   9327.3. The training program for an HHA using Board-approved model curriculum
   shall provide a minimum of:
   
   
   
   (a)	One hundred twenty-five hours (125) of didactic and clinical training
   consisting of sixty-five (65) hours of classroom instruction, twenty (20)
   hours of laboratory, and forty (40) hours of clinical; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Thirty-two hour (32) of didactic and clinical training in a certified
   nursing assistant (CNA)  bridge course consisting of sixteen (16) hours of
   classroom and laboratory, and sixteen (16) hours of clinical.

   9327.4. Each training program’s curriculum shall prepare trainees to
   practice as required in § 9315 prior to any direct contact with a client.

   9327.5. Each training program shall report to the Board for approval of any
   proposed change in its curriculum prior to the implementation of the change.

   9327.6. Each training program shall have a sufficient number of qualified
   instructors to meet the purposes and objectives of the program.

   9327.7. The training program shall be coordinated by a registered nurse with:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A current, unencumbered license issued by the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	At least two (2) years of experience as a registered nurse; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Clinical experience in the practice setting that he or she is
   coordinating.

   9327.8. The program coordinator’s responsibilities shall include, but not be
   limited to:
   
   (a)	Ensuring that the curriculum is coordinated and implemented in accordance
   with this chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Establishing job descriptions stating the responsibilities of the
   instructors;
   
   
   
   (c)	Ensuring that each instructor meets the qualifications specified in this
   chapter;
   
   
   
   (d)	Ensuring that each student is properly supervised during the student’s
   clinical experience; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Ensuring that each clinical preceptor evaluates the student’s
   performance and provides the evaluation results to the clinical instructor.

   9327.9. The training programs for HHAs shall be performed by a licensed nurse
   who is:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Licensed as a registered nurse in the District of Columbia and has a
   minimum of two (2) years of current clinical experience in the clinical
   practice setting in which he or she teaches; or
   
   
   
    (b)	Licensed as a practical nurse in the District of Columbia and has a
   minimum of three (3) years of current clinical experience in the home or
   residential settings.

   9327.10. A licensed, qualified health professional as listed in D.C. Official
   Code § 3-1201.02 (2012 Supp.) who has a minimum of two (2) years of
   experience may offer training to HHAs in non-nurse related content.

   9327.11. The following conditions shall be met when clinical preceptors are
   used:
   
   
   
   (a)	The criteria for selecting a clinical preceptor shall be in writing and
   shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (1) 	 The method of selecting clinical preceptors;
   
   
   
   (2)  	The plans for orientation of clinical preceptors;
   
   
   
   (3)  	The clinical objectives or outcomes of the preceptorship; and
   
   
   
   (4)  	A system for monitoring and evaluating the preceptor’s learning
   experiences.

   9327.12. There shall be a written agreement between the preceptor and the
   training program specifying the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The clinical objectives or outcomes; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The system used for monitoring and evaluating the trainee’s learning
   experiences.

   9327.13. The clinical instructor shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Retain responsibility for the trainee’s learning experiences and meet
   periodically with the clinical preceptor and the trainee to monitor and
   evaluate the trainee’s learning experiences; and
   
   
   
   (b)  	Be readily available, either directly or by a communication device, when
   preceptors are in the clinical area.

   9327.14. The clinical preceptor shall have:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A minimum of two (2) years of experience as a licensed nurse or HHA;
   
   
   
   (b)	Experience providing direct client care during the five (5) years
   immediately preceding the date of the written agreement between the preceptor
   and the training program;
   
   
   
   (c)  	A philosophy of health care congruent with that of the HHA program; and
   
   
   
   (d)  	Current knowledge of practice at the HHA level.

   9327.15. Each clinical instructor and preceptor shall be licensed or certified
   in the District of Columbia.

   9327.16. Clinical instruction shall be offered in the setting in which the HHA
   shall work.

   9327.17. The ratio of clinical instructors to trainees in clinical areas
   involving direct care of clients shall:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Be based upon the client acuity level, skill level of the trainee, and
   the clinical setting; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Not exceed one (1) instructor or preceptor to two (2) HHAs.

   9327.18. Each clinical instructor and preceptor’s qualifications shall be
   documented in the official records of the 	program and shall be available for
   review by the Board.

   9327.19. Each clinical instructor shall be responsible for:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Assisting in the development, implementation, and evaluation of the
   purpose, philosophy, and objective of the training program;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Helping to implement and evaluate the curriculum;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Facilitating preceptor participation in the program and evaluating the
   progress and retention of preceptors in the program;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Giving guidance to preceptors;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Evaluating preceptor achievement in the program;
   
   
   
   (f) 	Providing for preceptor and peer evaluation of his or her teaching
   effectiveness; and
   
   
   
   (g) 	Participating in continuing nursing education programs to improve his or
   her competence in areas of responsibilities.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8359, 8376 (July 13, 2012).
