                                  DC REGULATIONS

ABSENT FAMILY MEMBERS (§ 14-5318)

5318.1. A Family member who is or is expected to be absent from the assisted
   unit for one hundred twenty (120) consecutive days or less is considered
   temporarily absent and continues to be considered a Family member. Income,
   assets, or applicable deductions of a temporarily absent Family member shall
   be used in the calculation in the determination of the Family’s TTP.

   5318.2. A Family member who is or is expected to be absent from the assisted
   unit for more than one hundred twenty (120) consecutive days shall be
   considered permanently absent and no longer a part of the Family composition
   with the following exceptions:
   
   
   
   (a)	A Spouse;
   
   
   
   (b)	Children placed in foster care who have not been permanently removed from
   the home;
   
   
   
   (c)	A Family member hospitalized more than one hundred twenty (120)
   consecutive days but who is not permanently confined under § 5318.9; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A Family member who attends school away from home.

   5318.3. Income, assets or applicable deductions of a permanently absent Family
   member shall not be considered in the determination of the TTP.  The effective
   date of the permanent absence shall be one hundred twenty (120) days after the
   Family member has been permanently absent from the household, regardless of
   the date the absence is first reported to DCHA.

   5318.4. If a child has been placed in foster care, DCHA shall verify with the
   appropriate agency whether and when the child is expected to be returned to
   the home. Unless the agency confirms that the child has been permanently
   removed from the home, the child shall be counted as a Family member. If the
   Family head receives verification that the child has been permanently removed
   from the home, the assisted Family must supply the information to DCHA.

   5318.5. If a Spouse is absent from the household assisted unit more than one
   hundred twenty (120) consecutive days the Spouse shall continue to be
   considered a Family member and the Spouse’s income shall be counted.  The
   Spouse shall remain as part of the assisted household until DCHA receives
   verification is received documenting that the Spouse has left the household in
   a divorce action, legal separation, or through other verifiable third party
   documentation that documents that the Spouse has established a legal residency
   outside of the assisted household.

   5318.6. Acceptable forms of verification shall include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Court Ordered Separation;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Finalized Divorce Decree;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Verification that a Divorce or Legal Separation has been filed;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A lease at another address;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Bill(s) at another address (utility, gas, etc.);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Court records that reflect incarceration and the term of  the sentence; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Orders of Protection or other court orders.

   5318.7. A student who is not the Head of Household or Spouse who attends
   school away from the assisted unit, but lives with the Family during school
   recesses may be considered temporarily absent or permanently absent at the
   Family’s discretion.

   5318.8. If a Family member is confined to a nursing home or hospital on a
   permanent basis, that person is no longer considered a Family member and the
   income of that person is not counted.

   5318.9. Upon the return of a permanently absent Family member, the Family
   shall submit a written request to DCHA for approval of the return of any adult
   Family members that DCHA has determined to be permanently absent.  The
   individual shall be subject to the eligibility and screening requirements.

   5318.10. The Head of Household shall be required to report and declare, in
   writing, if a member of the Family is permanently or temporarily absent. The
   Family shall be briefed on the effect of a permanently or temporarily absent
   Family member as it relates voucher size and TTP.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7890, 7901 (June 29, 2012).
