                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADJUSTED INCOME AND DETERMINATION OF RENT (§ 14-5306)

5306.1. In the determination of adjusted income DCHA shall deduct from annual
   income the following deductions, as applicable to the Family:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Four hundred eighty dollars ($480) for each Dependent;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Four hundred dollars ($400) for any elderly Family or disabled Family;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	A medical expense deduction as defined below in § 5307.2 for elderly and
   disabled families; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	A child care expense deduction, for a Family with any adult member who is
   working or is attending school on a full time basis, and has an eligible
   child.

   5306.2. The DCHA Board of Commissioners periodically determines an additional
   medical deduction for each member of an elderly or disabled Family. A live-in
   aide shall not be given the medical deduction. This additional medical
   deduction is a fixed deduction for each member of the household who is
   sixty-two (62) years of age or older or is disabled. DCHA shall not verify
   whether the Family incurs the actual medical expenses or not.

   5306.3. The DCHA Board of Commissioners periodically determines an additional
   dependent deduction for each eligible child who is twelve (12) or under, in
   the cases where DCHA has verified that an adult member is working or is
   attending school on a full time basis.  This additional dependent deduction is
   a fixed deduction given to the Family for each qualifying child. DCHA does not
   verify whether the Family has an actual child care expense or not.

   5306.4. The deduction pursuant to § 5306.3 shall be given for all children
   twelve (12) or under, including foster children, who are living in the
   assisted Family’s household.  In order to qualify for the deduction, the
   following must exist:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Family shall identify the Family member(s) who are working or are in
   school full-time;
   
   
   
   (b)	If the child care expense being claimed is to enable a Family member to
   further his or her education, the member shall be enrolled in school (academic
   or vocational) or participating in a formal training program. The Family
   member shall be required to be a full-time student in order to qualify for the
   deduction; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Working shall mean any legal work activity (full or part-time) for which a
   Family member is compensated.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7890, 7891 (June 29, 2012).
