                                  DC REGULATIONS

REMOVING A HOUSEHOLD MEMBER (§ 14-5317)

5317.1. The Family shall notify DCHA within thirty (30) days of occurrence, if
   any Family member no longer lives in the unit.

   5317.2. DCHA shall make the determination whether the person no longer living
   in the unit is considered to be temporarily absent or permanently absent in
   accordance with § 5318, before the Family member can be removed from the
   household.

   5317.3. DCHA shall not remove the Family member from the household until such
   time as it can be sufficiently verified that the person is residing elsewhere.

   5317.4. Sufficient verification that a person is residing elsewhere shall
   include at least one (1) of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A lease for another unit;
   
   
   
   (b)	A utility bill for another unit;
   
   
   
   (c)	Government-issued ID issued after the date the household member vacated
   the leased premises;
   
   
   
   (d)	U.S. Postal Service change-of-address form;
   
   
   
   (e)	School records;
   
   
   
   (f) 	Court order; including but not limited to a Civil Order of Protection;
   
   
   
   (g) 	Government benefits record; or
   
   
   
   (h)	Other documentary proof satisfactory to the DCHA.

   5317.5. If the Family is unable to produce documentation satisfactory to the
   DCHA, the Family may submit a form attesting under penalty of perjury that the
   individual has permanently vacated the household, and DCHA shall remove the
   individual from the Family composition upon receipt of such form.

   5317.6. If a Family receiving assistance breaks up into two (2) otherwise
   eligible families as a result of divorce, separation, or intrafamily offenses,
   then DCHA shall use the following procedures to determine which Family shall
   continue to be assisted:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DCHA shall be bound to any decision of the courts, including but not limited
   to in cases of divorce, legal separation, or intrafamily offenses, as to who
   shall continue to receive assistance;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   In the case that there is no judicial decision relating to the assistance,
   DCHA shall consider the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any incidence of domestic violence or an intrafamily offense, in which case,
   the victim of the violence or offense shall continue to receive assistance;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The interest of minor children; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The interest of an ill, elderly, or disabled Family member; and;
   
   
   
   (c)	If DCHA receives conflicting certification documents of domestic violence
   from two (2) or more members of a household, each claiming to be a victim and
   naming one (1) or more of the other petitioning household members as the
   perpetrator, DCHA may determine which Family member is the true victim by
   requiring third-party documentation in accordance with the Violence Against
   Women Act (VAWA), as explained in § 4907.8 and other applicable laws using
   the following guidelines;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Prior to making any determination on who retains assistance, DCHA shall
   attempt to notify both adult family members involved in the alleged incident
   by first-class mail to the residence or an alternative address if one is
   provided that only one (1) part of the family shall continue to receive
   assistance;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The notice shall inform both adults of how DCHA will determine who retains
   assistance, and what relevant information each adult can provide to assist
   DCHA in making its determination;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   After making its determination using the factors as enumerated in § 5317.6,
   DCHA shall notify both adults in writing of its decision and the basis for the
   decision; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The adult family member who DCHA determines shall not continue to receive
   assistance shall be entitled to an informal hearing pursuant to chapter 89 of
   this title of the DCMR.

   5317.7. DCHA shall not determine that both families shall continue to be
   assisted unless an exception applies pursuant to VAWA or other applicable
   laws.

   5317.8. If the Head of Household has been determined to be permanently absent
   due to a medical reason, death, or incarceration, DCHA may permit a remaining
   adult family member to become Head of Household if the remaining Family is
   comprised of one or more of the following persons:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Minor children;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Elderly; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Disabled.

   5317.9. DCHA shall notify the remaining family member in writing of its
   determination within thirty (30) days of receipt of the completed application.

   5317.10. If DCHA determines that a remaining adult family member is eligible
   to become Head of Household under § 5318.9, the adult family member must
   first:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Submit an application; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Attend a briefing.

   5317.11. Live-in Aides, Foster Children, and adult wards are not considered
   part of the Family and shall not be considered remaining Family members.

   5317.12. If the Head of Household leaves the assisted unit voluntarily, other
   adult Family members shall not be considered remaining Family members and
   housing assistance shall not be continued unless the remaining Family members
   can provide the information required by § 5405.1(d). This shall be considered
   a voluntary withdrawal from the Program that is not subject to informal
   hearing procedures.

   5317.13. If the Head of Household dies or permanently vacates the unit and
   there are remaining Family members but no remaining adult household members,
   or none who are able to serve as Head of Household, then an adult who is not
   listed as a member of the household composition may reside in the assisted
   unit and may apply to become Head of Household.  The following shall apply
   under these circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	The applicant to be Head of Household must produce evidence of a
   caregiving relationship with the remaining minor children or disabled adults. 
   Such documentation may include, but is not limited to, court order; notarized
   authorization from the children’s legal guardian; school or medical records;
   public benefit records; and sworn statements from medical, legal, or social
   service professionals;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Where the remaining Family members are minors, the applicant to be Head of
   Household must either:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Obtain Custodial Power of Attorney; or
   
   
   
   (2) 	Commence legal proceedings to obtain legal guardianship or custody of the
   minor children.  So long as such proceeding is pending, and the applicant has
   produced evidence of a caregiving relationship and meets DCHA’s other
   screening criteria, DCHA shall consider the applicant to be eligible to be
   Head of Household and the voucher shall be transferred to that person;
   
   
   
   (c)	In the case of § 5318.4(b)(ii), the applicant’s eligibility to be Head
   of Household is contingent on legal proceedings pending or being resolved in
   favor of the applicant.  If a court of competent jurisdiction denies the
   applicant’s petition for custody or guardianship, no appeal is pending, or
   the appeal period has expired, DCHA will determine the applicant ineligible to
   be Head of Household and may issue a Recommendation for Termination (RFT).  In
   that event, another remaining adult household member may submit an application
   to be Head of Household within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the RFT,
   and DCHA will process such application in accordance with the requirements of
   this section; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Where more than one (1) adult has competing claims to become Head of
   Household as caregivers of the remaining minor children, DCHA shall follow the
   ruling of a court of competent jurisdiction regarding the custody or
   guardianship of the children.

   5317.14. During any period that a caregiver is considered a visitor, the
   income of the caretaker shall not be counted in annual income and the
   caregiver does not qualify the Family for any deductions from income.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7890, 7897 (June 29, 2012); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 11004 (September 21, 2012).
