                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMMISSION REVIEW OF AN APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATION BY WAIVER (ยง 15-2508)

2508.1. Within fifteen (15) days of the date that an Application is filed with
   the Commission, if the Application demonstrates that:
   
   
   
   (a)	The applicant has sufficient experience to ensure the continued provision
   of local exchange services within the District;
   
   
   
   (b)	The applicant has the financial stability to ensure the continued
   provision of local exchange services within the District; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The public interest will be served by the applicant&#8217;s entry into the
   local telecommunications marketplace within the District, the Commission shall
   issue an Order waiving the minimum experience and gross annual revenue
   requirements of D.C. Code ยง43-1452(d)(1) and granting the applicant&#8217;s
   request for certification to provide telecommunications services within the
   District of Columbia. The certification shall specify whether the applicant is
   authorized to provide resold services, facilities-based services, or both.

   2508.2. If a telecommunications service provider granted certification by
   waiver desires to provide services other than those authorized by the
   certification, the telecommunications service provider shall file another
   Application, with an additional application fee, requesting certification to
   provide those additional services.

   2508.3. Within fifteen (15) days of the date that an Application is filed with
   the Commission, if the Application fails to demonstrate that: (1) the
   applicant has sufficient experience and financial stability to ensure the
   continued provision of local exchange services within the District; or (2) it
   is in the public interest to grant certification, the Commission shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Request, in writing, additional information pursuant to D.C. Code ยง
   43-1452(d)(3) by letter or Order; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Issue an Order denying the applicant&#8217;s request for certification to
   provide telecommunications services within the District of Columbia.

   2508.4. If the Commission requests additional information pursuant to Section
   2509 of these Rules, either: (1) within fifteen (15) days of the date that the
   additional information is received by the Commission; or (2) if additional
   information is not received by the deadline established by the Commission,
   within fifteen (15) days of that deadline; the Commission shall, in its
   discretion:
   
   
   
   (a)	Issue an Order granting the applicant&#8217;s request for certification by
   waiver to provide telecommunications services within the District of Columbia.
   Such certification shall specify whether the applicant is authorized to
   provide resold services, facilities-based services, or both. If a
   telecommunications service provider granted certification by waiver desires to
   provide services other than those permitted by the certification, the
   telecommunications service provider shall file another Application, with an
   additional application fee, requesting certification to provide those
   additional services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Issue an Order denying the applicant&#8217;s request for certification to
   provide telecommunications services within the District of Columbia; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Return the Application to the applicant without issuing an Order granting
   or denying the certification. The applicant may re-file the Application, but
   an additional application fee shall be required. The re-filed Application
   shall include the information requested by the Commission.

   2508.5. Any decision denying an Application shall identify the basis for the
   denial.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2601 (April 14, 2000).
