                                  DC REGULATIONS

CHANGE OF CERTIFICATED PROVIDER INFORMATION (§ 15-2511)

2511.2. For any change of ownership or control involving a certificated local
   exchange carrier that must be approved by the Commission pursuant to D.C.
   Official Code § 34-1001 (2010 Repl.), all of the entities involved in the
   transaction must file an application with the Commission at least sixty (60 )
   days before the proposed closing date of the transaction.  The application
   must contain the following information:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The name, address, telephone number, fax number, email address, and
   contact information of all applicants involved in the transaction;
   
   
   
   (b) 	For certificated local exchange carriers involved in the transaction, the
   name under which the applicant is providing service in the District of
   Columbia, and the date and order number of the Commission order that
   authorized the certificated local exchange carrier to provide
   telecommunications services in the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of the transaction, including a description of the
   applicants’ corporate structures pre-transaction and post-transaction as
   well as the closing date of the transaction;
   
   
   
   (d) 	A description of how the transaction satisfies the following standards:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   How the proposed transaction will affect competition in the                   
    District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   How the proposed merger will affect universal service;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   How the proposed merger will affect public safety and welfare;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Whether the proposed merger will affect the quality of local
   telecommunications services;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   How the proposed merger will affect consumer rights; and
   
   
   
   (e) 	An affidavit verifying that all of the information in the application is
   true     and correct.

   2511.3. Within forty-five (45) days after receiving the application, the
   Commission shall approve the application, reject the application, or request
   supplemental information. If the Commission requests supplemental information,
   the applicant will be afforded fifteen (15) days to provide the Commission
   with such supplemental information. Upon receipt of supplemental information,
   the Commission shall have thirty (30) days to approve the application or
   reject the application.

   2511.4. The Commission shall approve an abandonment of certification
   application if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The applicants have provided the information in section 2511.2; and
   
   
   
   			(b) 	The approval of the application would serve the public interest.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2601(April 14, 2000);
   as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published 59 DCR 3150 (April 20,
   2012).
