                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVAL OF REQUEST FOR TENANCY (§ 14-5214)

5214.1. Prior to approving the assisted tenancy and executing a HAP contract,
   DCHA shall ensure that all required actions and determinations have been
   completed.  These actions include ensuring:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   That the unit is eligible;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   That the unit has been inspected by DCHA and meets the HQS;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   That the lease offered by the owner is approvable and contains the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The initial lease terms and the renewal term;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Who is responsible for payment of utilities;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The names of the occupants; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The required Tenancy Addendum;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   That the rent to be charged by the owner for the unit is reasonable in
   accordance chapter 83 of this title of the DCMR;
   
   
   
   (e)	Where the Family is initially leasing a unit and the gross rent of the
   unit exceeds the applicable payment standard for the Family, that the share of
   rent to be paid by the Family does not exceed forty percent (40%) of the
   Family’s monthly adjusted income;
   
   
   
   (f)	That the owner is an eligible owner, has been neither disapproved by DCHA
   nor debarred by HUD, and has no prohibited conflicts of interest; and
   
   
   
   (g)	That the unit is accessible when the tenant has a disability.

   5214.2. DCHA shall complete its determination within ten (10) business days of
   receiving all required information listed in § 5212.

   5214.3. If the terms of the RTA or the proposed lease are changed for any
   reason, including but not limited to negotiation with DCHA, DCHA shall obtain
   corrected copies of the RTA and proposed lease.

   5214.4. Corrections to the RTA or the proposed lease shall only be accepted as
   hard copies, in person, by mail, by fax, or electronically to an authorized
   DCHA email address.

   5214.5. If DCHA determines that the tenancy cannot be approved for any reason,
   the owner and the Family shall be notified in writing and given the
   opportunity to address any reasons for disapproval. DCHA’s notice shall
   instruct the owner and Family of the steps that are necessary to approve the
   tenancy.

   5214.6. Where the tenancy is not approved because the unit is ineligible, the
   Family shall continue to search for eligible housing within the new timeframe
   of the issued voucher.  The expiration date of the voucher is suspended while
   DCHA makes its determination.

   5214.7. If the tenancy is not approvable due to rent affordability (including
   rent burden and rent reasonableness), DCHA shall attempt to negotiate the rent
   with the owner. If a new, approvable rent is negotiated, the tenancy shall be
   approved. If the owner is not willing to negotiate an approvable rent, the
   Family shall continue to search for eligible housing within the timeframe of
   the issued voucher.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7875, 7886 (June 29, 2012).
