                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUEST FOR TENANCY APPROVAL (§ 14-5212)

5212.1. The owner and the Family shall submit the following documents to DCHA:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Completed RTA – HUD Form-52517;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Copy of the proposed lease, including the HUD-prescribed Tenancy Addendum;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Ownership (recorded deed);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If a management agent is involved, a management agreement;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A lease that will be used for the lease-up;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If the Family is moving from one assisted unit to another and was responsible
   for a water bill, a recent copy (within last 30 days) of the water bill
   provided showing a balance of fifty dollars ($50) or less;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Executed Lead-Based Paint notice;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   HUD Authorization for Release of Information/Privacy Act Statement(s)
   (executed by all adult household members);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Completed W-9 Forms; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The address for the Owner(s) current home or place of business.  Post Office
   Box addresses are not acceptable.

   5212.2. After the documents listed in § 5212.1 have been submitted, DCHA
   shall verify the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All required signatures are executed on the RTA;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Family’s Voucher has not expired;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Family is in good standing to move with continued assistance; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The owner has requested a rent DCHA will approve.

   5212.3. The owner may submit the RTA on behalf of the Family.

   5212.4. The completed RTA shall be submitted as hard copies, in-person, or
   electronically to an authorized DCHA email address.  DCHA shall provide a
   written receipt at that time.

   5212.5. The Family may not submit, and DCHA shall not process, more than one
   (1) RTA at a time.

   5212.6. When the Family submits the RTA, DCHA shall review the RTA for
   completeness. If the RTA is incomplete or missing signatures by the Family or
   owner, DCHA shall notify the Family and the owner of such deficiencies and
   provide assistance in completing, if necessary, as a reasonable accommodation.

   5212.7. Missing information or missing documents shall only be accepted as
   hard copies, in-person, by mail, by fax, or electronically to an authorized
   DCHA email address.

   5212.8. Because of the time sensitive nature of the tenancy approval process,
   DCHA shall attempt to communicate with the owner and Family by phone, fax, or
   email. DCHA shall use mail when the parties cannot be reached by phone, fax,
   or email.

   5212.9. Once the RTA and proposed lease are approved, DCHA shall schedule an
   HQS inspection.

   5212.10. After DCHA accepts an RTA, the time period of the Voucher shall be
   suspended if any of the following circumstances apply:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Family is waiting for notification from DCHA that the lease is approved;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Family is waiting for DCHA to make a reasonable accommodation decision;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Additional time is needed for the Family to locate suitable housing as a
   reasonable accommodation; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Prior to DCHA rejecting the unit for lease-up, the Family makes a reasonable
   accommodation request applicable to approval of such unit.

   5212.11. If the unit is not approved, the expiration period of the Voucher
   shall resume on the date that DCHA notifies the Family to pick up the Voucher.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7875, 7883 (June 29, 2012).
