                                  DC REGULATIONS

DETERMINATION OF VOUCHER SIZE (ยง 14-5205)

5205.1. The Voucher size is used to determine the maximum rent subsidy for a
   Family assisted in the HCVP.

   5205.2. The following requirements apply when DCHA determines Voucher size
   under the subsidy standards:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The subsidy standards shall provide for the lowest number of bedrooms needed
   to house a Family without overcrowding;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The subsidy standards shall be consistent with space requirements under the
   Housing Quality Standards contained in ยง 5321;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The subsidy standards shall be applied consistently for all families of like
   size and composition;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A child who is temporarily away from the home because of placement in foster
   care is considered a member of the Family in determining the Voucher size;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A live-in aide, approved by DCHA, shall be counted in determining the Voucher
   size;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Foster children and adult wards shall be included in the determination of the
   Voucher size; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Voucher size for any Family consisting of a single person shall only be a
   one (1)-bedroom.

   5205.3. DCHA shall assign one (1)-bedroom for the Head of Household and/or a
   Spouse and an additional bedroom for each two (2) persons within the household
   with the following exceptions:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Children of the opposite gender shall be allocated separate bedrooms once one
   of the children is over the age of five (5) or if one of the children will
   turn five (5) within the initial term of the voucher.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Children of the same gender shall be allocated one (1) bedroom.  Beginning at
   age thirteen (13), if there is a difference of five (5) years or more,
   children of the same gender shall have separate bedrooms.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Adult Family members shall not be allocated a bedroom with a minor.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A bedroom shall not be assigned to an unborn child; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A live-in aide approved by DCHA shall be allocated an individual bedroom.

   5205.4. Considerations to persons attending school away from home shall be in
   accordance with DCHA policies regarding absent Family members under ยง 5319.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7875, 7878 (June 29, 2012).
