                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROPERTY CONTROL SYSTEMS (ยง 27-4107)

4107.1. The contractor shall establish and maintain a system to control,
   protect, preserve, and maintain all District property.

   4107.2. The property control system shall be in writing unless the contracting
   officer determines that maintaining a written system is unnecessary.

   4107.3. The property control system shall be reviewed and, if satisfactory,
   approved by the contracting officer.

   4107.4. When the contracting officer finds any portion of the
   contractor&#8217;s property control system to be inadequate, the contractor
   shall be required to take any necessary corrective action before the system
   can be approved.

   4107.5. When District property is found to be in the possession or control of
   the contractor, although not provided under any contract, the contractor shall
   promptly record the property and furnish to the contracting officer all known
   circumstances and data pertaining to its receipt and a statement about whether
   it is needed for the performance of the contract.

   4107.6. When unrecorded District property is found in the possession or
   control of the contractor, both the cause of the discrepancy and actions taken
   or needed to prevent recurrence shall be determined and reported to the
   contracting officer.

   4107.7. The contractor shall promptly report to the contracting officer all
   District property it receives in excess of the amounts needed to complete full
   performance under the contracts providing it or authorizing its use.

   4107.8. The contractor shall furnish written receipts for all or specified
   classes of District property only when the contracting officer deems it
   essential for maintaining acceptable property controls.

   4107.9. When overages, shortages, or damages are discovered upon receipt of
   District property, the contractor shall provide a statement of the condition
   and apparent causes to the contracting officer. Only the quantity of property
   actually received shall be recorded on the official records.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1740 (February 26, 1988).
