                                  DC REGULATIONS

CARE, MAINTENANCE, AND USE OF DISTRICT PROPERTY (ยง 27-4113)

4113.1. The contractor shall be responsible for the proper care, maintenance,
   and use of District property in its possession or control from the time of
   receipt until properly relieved of responsibility, in accordance with sound
   industrial practice and the terms of the contract and this chapter.

   4113.2. The removal of District property to storage, or its contemplated
   transfer, shall not relieve the contractor of the responsibilities set forth
   in this section.

   4113.3. The contractor shall be responsible [responsible] for a preventive
   maintenance program which includes the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Inspection of buildings at periodic intervals to ensure detection of
   deterioration and the need for repairs;
   
   
   
   (b)	Inspection of equipment at periodic intervals to ensure detection of
   maladjustment, wear, or impending breakdown;
   
   
   
   (c)	Regular lubrication of bearings and moving parts in accordance with a
   lubrication plan;
   
   
   
   (d)	Adjustments for wear, repair, or replacement of worn or damaged parts and
   the elimination of causes of deterioration;
   
   
   
   (e)	Removal of sludge, chips, and cutting oils from equipment that will not be
   used for a period of time; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Taking necessary precautions to prevent deterioration caused by
   contamination, corrosion, and other substances.

   4113.4. The contractor&#8217;s maintenance program shall provide for
   disclosing and reporting to the contracting officer the need for major repair,
   replacement, and other capital rehabilitation work for District property in
   its possession or control.

   4113.5. The contractor shall keep records of maintenance actions performed and
   any deficiencies in District property discovered as a result of inspections.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1744 (February 26, 1988).
