                                  DC REGULATIONS

USE OF DISTRICT PROPERTY AND FACILITIES (ยง 27-4102)

4102.1. Except as provided otherwise in this chapter, each contractor and
   subcontractor shall furnish all property necessary to perform District
   contracts.

   4102.2. If a contractor or subcontractor is permitted to use or otherwise
   possess District property, the contracting officer shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Eliminate to the maximum practical extent any competitive advantage that
   might arise from using District property;
   
   
   
   (b)	Require contractors (or subcontractors) to use the District property to
   the maximum practical extent in performing District contracts;
   
   
   
   (c)	Permit the property to be used only when authorized;
   
   
   
   (d)	Charge appropriate rentals when the property is authorized for use on
   other than a rent-free basis;
   
   
   
   (e)	Require contractors and subcontractors to be responsible and accountable
   for keeping records of District property in their possession or control;
   
   
   
   (f)	Require contractors and subcontractors to review and provide justification
   for retaining District property not currently in use; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Ensure maximum practical reutilization of contractor inventory by the
   District.

   4102.3. Contractors and subcontractors shall furnish all facilities required
   for performing District contracts except as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	When, as a result of the prospective contractor&#8217;s written statement
   asserting inability or unwillingness to obtain facilities, the Director
   determines that the contract cannot be fulfilled by any other practical means;
   or
   
   
   
   (b)	When the Director determines that it is in the best interests of the
   District to provide the facility.

   4102.4. Competitive solicitations shall not include any offer by the District
   to provide District facilities unless adequate price competition cannot
   otherwise be obtained.

   4102.5. Facilities may be provided to a contractor or subcontractor under a
   contract, other than a facilities contract, in any of the following
   situations:
   
   
   
   (a)	The actual or estimated cumulative acquisition cost of the facilities
   provided at one place or general location does not exceed one hundred thousand
   dollars ($100,000);
   
   
   
   (b)	The contract is for construction; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The contract is for work within an establishment operated by the District.

   4102.6. When a facilities contract is not used, the District&#8217;s interests
   shall be protected by using a District property clause approved by the
   Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1736 (February 26, 1988).
