                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACTOR LIABILITY FOR DISTRICT PROPERTY (ยง 27-4109)

4109.1. Contractors shall be responsible and liable for District property in
   their possession, unless otherwise specified in the contract.

   4109.2. When the District provides District property directly to a
   subcontractor, the provisions of this section shall apply to the
   subcontractor.

   4109.3. Subcontractors shall be liable for loss of or damage to District
   property furnished through a prime contractor.

   4109.4. A prime contractor that provides District property to a subcontractor
   shall not be relieved of any responsibility to the District that the prime
   contractor may have under the terms of the prime contract.

   4109.5. The contracting officer shall include in each contract authorizing the
   use by the contractor of District property a clause, approved by the Director,
   establishing the general liability of contractors that use District property.

   4109.6. Subject to the terms of the contract and the circumstances surrounding
   the particular case, the contractor shall be liable for shortages, loss,
   damages, or destruction of District property. The contractor shall also be
   liable when the use or consumption of District property unreasonably exceeds
   the allowances provided for by the contract.

   4109.7. The contractor shall investigate and report to the contracting officer
   all cases of loss, damage, or destruction of District property in its
   possession or control as soon as the facts become known, or when requested by
   the contracting officer. A report shall also be furnished when completed and
   accepted products or end items are lost, damaged, or destroyed while in the
   contractor&#8217;s possession or control.

   4109.8. The contractor shall require any of its subcontractors possessing or
   controlling District property accountable under the contract to investigate
   and report all instances of loss, damage, or destruction of District property.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1741 (February 26, 1988).
