                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTENTS OF PROPERTY CONTROL RECORDS (ยง 27-4111)

4111.1. Official District property records shall identify all District
   property and provide a complete, current, auditable record of all
   transactions.

   4111.2. The contractor&#8217;s property control records shall provide the
   following basic information for every item of District property in the
   contractor&#8217;s possession regardless of value:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, description, and commodity code;
   
   
   
   (b)	Quantity received, issued, and on hand;
   
   
   
   (c)	Unit price;
   
   
   
   (d)	Contract number;
   
   
   
   (e)	Location;
   
   
   
   (f)	Disposition; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Posting reference and date of transaction.

   4111.3. Costs incurred by the contractor or the District for new construction
   including erection, installation, or assembly of District real property in
   possession of the contractor shall be capitalized in the official District
   property records and financial accounts maintained by the contractor for the
   District.

   4111.4. Costs incurred for additions, expansions, extensions, conversions,
   alterations, and improvements, including applicable portions of capital
   maintenance, that increase the value, life, utility, capability, or
   serviceablity of District real property shall be capitalized.

   4111.5. Costs incurred for portable buildings or facilities specifically
   constructed for tests that involve destruction of the facility shall not be
   capitalized in the District real property records or financial accounts.

   4111.6. Costs incurred for maintenance, repair, or rearrangement to maintain
   the District&#8217;s real property in good physical condition, utility,
   capacity, or serviceability shall be charged to expense, and the real property
   records shall not be affected.

   4111.7. When District-owned real property is sold, transferred, donated,
   destroyed by fire or other cause, abandoned in place, or condemned, the
   contracting officer shall ensure that the District&#8217;s financial accounts
   are reduced by the presently recorded cost and the real property records
   annotated with a supporting statement, including pertinent facts.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1742 (February 26, 1988).
