                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACTOR USE OF DISTRICT VEHICLES AND RELATED SERVICES (ยง 27-4101)

4101.1. When it is in the best interests of the District, the contracting
   officer may authorize contractors in writing to obtain District-owned or
   leased vehicles and related services (including fuel and lubricants, vehicle
   inspection, maintenance, repair, and vehicle storage), in accordance with the
   provisions of this section.

   4101.2. The contracting officer may provide contractors with motor vehicles
   and related services only when all of the following are applicable:
   
   
   
   (a)	The number of vehicles and related services required for use by contractor
   personnel is predictable and expected to remain fairly constant;
   
   
   
   (b)	The proposed contract or contracts will bear the entire cost of the
   vehicle program;
   
   
   
   (c)	The vehicles will not be used on any contract other than that for which
   the vehicles were provided, unless approved by the head of the contracting
   agency;
   
   
   
   (d)	Prospective contractors do not have or would not be expected to have an
   existing and continuing capability for providing the vehicles from their own
   resources; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Substantial savings are expected.

   4101.3. District contractors shall not be authorized to obtain District
   vehicles and related services for use in performance of any contract other
   than a cost-reimbursement contract unless specifically approved in writing by
   the Director.

   4101.4. Vehicles and related services obtained by a contractor under this
   section shall be used only in connection with the performance of one (1) or
   more specific District contracts.

   4101.5. Before authorizing a contractor to obtain District vehicles and
   related services, the contracting officer shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Determine whether the authorization will accomplish the District&#8217;s
   contractual objectives and reduce costs;
   
   
   
   (b)	Obtain evidence that the contractor has in effect motor vehicle liability
   insurance covering bodily injury and property damage, with limits of liability
   as required or approved by the Director, protecting the contractor and the
   District against third-party claims arising from the ownership, maintenance,
   or use of a District vehicle;
   
   
   
   (c)	Arrange for periodic checks to ensure that contractors are using vehicles
   and related services in accordance with the terms of the authorization;
   
   
   
   (d)	Ensure that the contractor establishes and enforces penalties for
   employees who use or authorize the use of District vehicles and related
   services for purposes other than the performance of District contracts;
   
   
   
   (e)	Obtain a written statement from the contractor that the contractor will
   assume, without the right of reimbursement from the District, the cost or
   expense and liability of any use of District vehicles and services not related
   to the performance of the contract; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Consider any recommendations of the contractor.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1734 (February 26, 1988).
