                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY FOR DISTRICT PROPERTY (§ 27-4106)

4106.1. The contractor shall be directly responsible and accountable for all
   District property in accordance with the provisions of the contract, including
   all District property in the possession or control of a subcontractor.

   4106.2. The contractor shall maintain and make available all property control
   records required under this chapter and account for all District property
   until relieved of the responsibility by the contracting officer under the
   terms of the contract or this section.

   4106.3. The contractor shall assume responsibility for the control of District
   property upon the occurrence of the following events:
   
   
   
   (a)	Delivery of District furnished property into the contractor&#8217;s
   custody or control;
   
   
   
   (b)	Delivery to the contractor, when property is purchased by the contractor
   and the contract calls for reimbursement by the District. This requirement
   shall not alter or modify contractual requirements relating to passage of
   title;
   
   
   
   (c)	Approval of the contractor&#8217;s claim for reimbursement by the District
   or upon issuance for use in contract performance, whichever is earlier, of
   property withdrawn from contractor-owned stores and charged directly to the
   contracts; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Acceptance of title by the District when title is acquired pursuant to
   specific contract clauses or as a result of change orders or contract
   termination.

   4106.4. Property to which the District has acquired a lien or title solely as
   a result of advance, progress, or partial payments shall not be subject to the
   requirements of §§4106 and 4107.

   4106.5. The contractor shall require subcontractors provided with District
   property under the prime contract to comply with the requirements of §§4106
   and 4107. Procedures for ensuring subcontractor compliance shall be included
   in the contractor&#8217;s property control system.

   4106.6. Unless the contract or contracting officer provides otherwise, the
   contractor shall be relieved of property control responsibility for District
   property by the occurrence of any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Reasonable and proper consumption of property in the performance of the
   contract as determined by the contracting officer;
   
   
   
   (b)	Retention by the contractor, with the approval of the contracting officer,
   of property for which the District has received adequate consideration;
   
   
   
   (c)	The authorized sale of property, provided the proceeds are received by or
   credited to the District;
   
   
   
   (d)	Shipment from the contractor&#8217;s plant, under District instructions,
   except when shipment is to a subcontractor or other location of the
   contractor; or
   
   
   
   (e)	A written determination by the contracting officer of the
   contractor&#8217;s liability for any property that is lost, damaged,
   destroyed, or consumed in excess of that normally anticipated in a
   manufacturing or processing operation, which is followed by reimbursement of
   the District of any amount required in the determination. If the property is
   rendered unserviceable by damage, the property shall be properly disposed of,
   and the determination shall refer to the documents evidencing disposal.

   4106.7. Non-profit organizations shall be relieved of responsibility for
   District property when title to the property is transferred to the contractor.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1738 (February 26, 1988).
