                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACTOR USE OF DISTRICT SUPPLY SOURCES (ยง 27-4100)

4100.1. When it is in the best interests of the District, and if goods or
   services required in the performance of a District contract are available from
   District supply sources, contracting officers may authorize contractors to use
   these sources in performing the following types of contracts:
   
   
   
   (a)	Cost-reimbursement; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Other types of contracts when the contracting officer determines that a
   substantial dollar portion of the contract is of a cost-reimbursement nature,
   or that the contract cost can be reduced by authorizing the use of District
   sources by the contractor.

   4100.2. Before issuing an authorization to a contractor to use District supply
   sources, the contracting officer shall prepare and place in the contract file
   a written finding supporting issuance of the authorization.

   4100.3. The authorization to a contractor to use District supply sources shall
   include, but not be limited to, consideration of the following factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	The administrative cost of placing orders with District supply sources and
   the program impact of delay factors, if any;
   
   
   
   (b)	The lower cost of items available through District supply sources;
   
   
   
   (c)	The suitability of items available through District supply sources;
   
   
   
   (d)	Delivery factors, such as cost and time; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The recommendations of the contractor.

   4100.4. The contracting officer shall issue authorizations to subcontractors
   to use District supply sources through, and with the approval of, the
   contractor.

   4100.5. The contracting officer may include in the authorization to use
   District supply sources any limitations or conditions deemed necessary, such
   as the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A limitation on the authority to purchase from District supply sources to
   any overhead supplies, but not production supplies;
   
   
   
   (b)	A limitation on the authority for use of District sources to a specific
   dollar amount;
   
   
   
   (c)	A restriction on the authorization to use certain facilities or to
   specific contracts; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A specific provision setting forth whether vesting of title will differ
   from other property acquired or otherwise furnished by the contractor for use
   under the contract.

   4100.6. The contracting officer shall include a provision, approved by the
   Director, in all contracts that authorize the use by the contractor of
   District sources of supply and shall indicate any limitations on the
   authority.

   4100.7. After issuing the authorization, the contracting officer shall be
   responsible for ensuring that the contractor complies with the terms of the
   authorization and that goods and services obtained from District supply
   sources are properly accounted for and properly used.

   4100.8. When ordering from District supply sources, contractors shall follow
   all applicable rules, regulations, procedures, and contract terms.

   4100.9. Contractors placing orders with District supply sources shall comply
   with the requirements of the contracting officer&#8217;s authorization and
   order only those items required for performance of the contract.

   4100.10. Title to property acquired by the contractor under the contracting
   officer&#8217;s authorization may vest in either the District or the
   contractor, as provided in the contract. If the contract is silent on the
   vesting of title, title shall vest in the District.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: Unless otherwise noted, the authority for this chapter is the
   District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 1985, D.C. Law 6-85, as
   amended, D.C. Code ยง1-1181.1 et seq. (1981).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1733 (February 26, 1988).
