                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPLAINT RESOLUTION (§ 7-3216)

A person who believes that any of the rights created by the Act has been
improperly denied him or her may file a complaint with the Department of
Employment Services in the form and manner prescribed by the Director of the
Department.  Complaints shall be filed within sixty (60) days after the event on
which the complaint is based; provided that no sixty (60) day period shall
commence until the employer has posted the notice required by section 10 of the
Act and § 3213 of this Chapter







The Director shall review all complaints and shall investigate those complaints
which the Director determines require investigation.







Complaints shall be investigated and resolved in an expeditious manner
consistent with the nature of the complaint.  The Director shall make all
reasonable efforts to resolve all complaints within forty-five (45) business
days of their filing and shall notify all parties if that time period cannot be
met and shall make a good faith estimate of the expected resolution date.







In the course of investigating, resolving and deciding complaints, the Director
shall have the authority to:







Investigate and ascertain the length of service, hiring dates, paid leave usage
requests, certifications provided by employees, and any other issue relating to
the rights created by the Act;







Require sworn written statements from employers and employees concerning the
issues raised by the complaint; and







Conduct informal investigations, examinations, or meetings at which employers
and employees appear, give sworn statements, and answer questions from the
Director or the adverse party.







Following an investigation, the Director shall issue a decision concerning the
complaint.  Copies of the decision shall be served on each party at their last
known address.







A party aggrieved by the Director’s decision may appeal the decision as
provided in the District of Columbia Administrative Procedure Act, approved
October 21, 1968 (82 Stat. 1204; D.C. Official Code § 2-501 et seq.).







Complaints shall be investigated and resolved in an expeditious manner
consistent with the nature of the complaint.







The employer shall maintain records of the accrual, granting and denial of leave
pursuant to the Act for a period of three years as generally provided in 7 DCMR
§ 911.



SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 5231, 5238 (June 18, 2010).
