                                  DC REGULATIONS

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (§ 4-602)

602.1. Each franchisee granted a franchise to operate a cable television
   system in the District of Columbia shall submit to the Office of Human Rights,
   for approval, a written affirmative action plan with goals and timetables to
   meet the requirements of the Cable Television Act of 1981, Title 34, Chapter12
   of the D.C. Official Code (2001).

   602.2. Each affirmative action plan shall include as a minimum the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	An affirmative action statement which includes a clear and unambiguous
   declaration of commitment to the principles of equal opportunity. The
   statement shall include a provision stating that the franchisee prohibits
   discrimination in its employment, in its policies, and in its practices in
   accordance with the District of Columbia Human Rights Act of 1977, Title 2,
   Chapter 14 of the D.C. Official Code (2001), and shall specify its protected
   classes; and
   
   
   
   (b)	An administrative statement which includes how the franchisee’s
   affirmative action plan is to be implemented and which key officials are
   responsible for its implementation. The administrative statement shall contain
   the name, job title, and work location of the affirmative action officer. The
   statement shall be signed by the top official of the franchisee.

   602.3. Each franchisee shall annually provide in its affirmative action plan a
   workforce analysis which provides a numerical and percentile breakdown of its
   full-time and part-time employees, separately by racial or ethnic minorities,
   sex, age, and disability. In addition, all employees shall be arrayed by their
   occupational categories and income brackets.

   602.4. The job and occupational categories shall include as a minimum the
   following categories:
   
   
   
   (a)	Officials and managers;
   
   
   
   (b)	Professionals;
   
   
   
   (c)	Technicians;
   
   
   
   (d)	Sales persons;
   
   
   
   (e)	Office and clerical personnel;
   
   
   
   (f)	Skilled craft personnel;
   
   
   
   (g)	Semi-skilled personnel;
   
   
   
   (h)	Unskilled laborers; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Service workers.

   602.5. Each franchisee shall annually provide in its affirmative action plan
   an availability analysis. The availability analysis shall show the percentile
   breakdown by racial or ethnic minorities and sex of the relevant labor force
   arrayed according to the occupational categories listed in § 602.4.

   602.6. The franchisee shall assess the relevant labor force by determining the
   geographical area from which recruitment for the franchisee workforce can
   reasonably occur. The percentile breakdown by race or ethnicity and sex shall
   be determined by the analysis method promulgated by the Office of Federal
   Contract Compliance Programs, 41 Code of Federal Regulations, Chapter 60-2,
   Revised Order, No.4.

   602.7. Each franchisee shall conduct a quantitative utilization analysis for
   its affirmative action plan. The quantitative utilization analysis shall
   compare work force analysis with availability analysis to show the numerical
   and percentile underrepresentation, if any, in the franchisee’s workforce by
   racial or ethnic minorities and sex.

   602.8. Each franchisee shall conduct a qualitative utilization analysis for
   its affirmative action plan. An analysis shall show whether and where a
   franchisee’s employment policies and practices do or tend to exclude,
   disadvantage, restrict or adversely impact on the basis of race, ethnicity,
   age, sex, and disability. It shall also show whether and where effects of
   prior illegal discrimination are left uncorrected. The analysis may include
   the following areas:
   
   
   
   (a)	Recruitment efforts and methods;
   
   
   
   (b)	Applicant flow characteristics study;
   
   
   
   (c)	Interview, selection, appointment, and placement policies and practices;
   
   
   
   (d)	Policies and practices affecting transfers, promotions and reallocations;
   
   
   
   (e)	Selection of employees for training; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Policies and practice in demotion, discipline, termination and reduction
   in force.

   602.9. The franchisee’s affirmative action goals and timetable shall specify
   the appropriate actions and timeframes in which problems identified under §§
   602.7 and 602.8 are targeted to be remedied. These actions may include, but
   not be limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Devise a recruitment program in conjunction with the District of Columbia
   Department of Employment Services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Devise a recruitment program in conjunction with professional minority and
   women organizations, and cable or communication organizations;
   
   
   
   (c)	Validate the selection instrument in conjunction with the Uniform
   Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures issued by the United States Equal
   Opportunity Commission, as amended, which appear in 29 CFR § 1607;
   
   
   
   (d)	Devise apprenticeship programs and other on-the-job training programs; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Revise and improve other personnel policies and practices in order to best
   accomplish full equal employment opportunity in the franchisee workforce.

   602.10. The franchisee shall determine the timetable within which it expects
   to meet its established goals and the goals specified in the Cable Television
   Act of 1981. In setting the timetable, the franchisee may consider the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Anticipated vacancies and positions; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Workforce turnover rate.

   602.11. The franchisee shall prepare goals and timetables for each
   organizational unit at all locations of its operations.

   602.12. The Office of Human Rights and the Commission on Human Rights shall
   submit an annual report to the Council of the District of Columbia, stating
   whether the franchisee is in compliance with the affirmative action
   requirements of the Cable Television Act of 1981 and recommend suspension or
   termination of the franchise, if necessary.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 7187, 7188-90 (September 30,
   1988).
