                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPETITIVE NEGOTIATIONS (§ 27-4620)

4620.1. The solicitation used to initiate a procurement conducted by
   competitive negotiation is known as a Request for Proposals (RFP).

   4620.2. If the Contracting Officer issues an RFP, the Contracting Officer
   shall establish a reasonable deadline for offerors’ submission of initial
   proposals.

   4620.3. The evaluation criteria used in procurements conducted by competitive
   negotiation include price or cost (including, but not limited to, hourly rates
   for services and fixed fees for cost reimbursement contracts) along with any
   other factors appropriate to the particular procurement (for example, the
   offeror’s technical approach, past performance, or status as a CBE or plans
   for subcontracting with CBEs).

   4620.4. The RFP may, if the Contracting Officer deems it advisable, contain
   either an estimate that generally describes the price range contemplated by
   the Contracting Officer or a funding limitation for the procurement.

   4620.5. The RFP shall specify all evaluation factors and their relative
   importance.  The RFP should also include:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the goods, services, or scope of construction work sought
   (including quantity or estimated quantity);
   
   
   
   (b)	The contract delivery schedule (including any permitted variations in the
   delivery schedule);
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of any special qualification requirements the contractor
   must satisfy;
   
   
   
   (d)	Instructions for submitting proposals including: the deadline for proposal
   submission, the method(s) for submitting proposals, the information to be
   provided in the proposal (including any requirements for past performance
   information or for subcontracting plans), and any representations or
   certifications the offeror must submit;
   
   
   
   (e)	The period during which proposals must remain open for acceptance; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The anticipated contract terms and conditions and the extent to which they
   are negotiable.

   4620.6. Any changes in the information set forth in an RFP must be made by an
   amendment to the RFP.  Amendments shall be made no less than three (3)
   business days before the proposal submission date specified by the RFP.

   4620.7. Proposals shall be submitted by a method specifically permitted by the
   RFP.

   4620.8. The Contracting Officer shall evaluate proposals based solely on the
   evaluation criteria specified in the RFP.  Where past performance is an
   evaluation factor, the Contracting Officer is not limited to considering only
   the information from references listed by the offeror.

   4620.9. After initial proposals have been evaluated, the Contracting Officer
   may:
   
   
   
   (a)	Make an award based on initial proposals; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Establish a competitive range consisting of those proposals that remain
   under consideration, which shall include all proposals that, in the
   Contracting Officer’s judgment (erring on the side of the offeror), could be
   awarded the procurement.

   4620.10. The Contracting Officer may begin discussions with only the top three
   ranked offerors in the competitive range.  Discussions with the offerors may
   be written (including electronic) or oral.  The primary objective of
   discussions is to maximize the Hospital’s ability to obtain the best value
   based on the evaluation factors set forth in the RFP.  The scope and extent of
   discussions are a matter of Contracting Officer judgment.

   4620.11. At the conclusion of discussions, the Contracting Officer shall
   request that the offerors submit best and final offers by a common cut-off
   date.  If the Contracting Officer is unable to award a contract after best and
   final offers have been evaluated and negotiated, the Contracting Officer may
   proceed to negotiate with the next three highest ranked offerors.  The
   Contracting Officer may proceed to select a contractor by the method set forth
   in this subchapter until a contract is awarded or the solicitation cancelled.
   
   
   
   4620.12 	The contract shall be awarded to the qualified offeror whose offer is
   most advantageous to the Hospital under the RFP’s evaluation criteria and
   this chapter.

   4620.13. The Contracting Officer shall prepare documentation explaining the
   basis for the contract award decision which shall be maintained in the
   contract file.

   4620.14. The Contracting Officer shall endeavor to include with every RFP
   solicitation the form of the contract that the contractor will be required to
   enter into.  To the greatest extent possible, the Contracting Officer should
   endeavor to provide clear, concise contract documents.  Contracts which
   consist of the solicitation, the proposal, and other documents attached
   together but not integrated into a single contract document are discouraged.
   
   Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 8507
   (October 8, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3086 (April 18, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4565, 4587 (May 27, 2011).
