                                  DC REGULATIONS

SEALED BIDDING (§ 27-4619)

4619.1. The solicitation used to initiate a procurement conducted by sealed
   bidding is known as an Invitation for Bids (IFB).

   4619.2. If the Contracting Officer issues an IFB, the Contracting Officer
   shall allow prospective bidders a reasonable time to prepare and submit bids. 
   Except in the event of an emergency, this time period shall be no less than
   ten (10) business days.

   4619.3. The evaluation factors used in sealed bid procurements are limited to
   price and price-related factors (including price evaluation preferences for
   CBEs).

   4619.4. The IFB shall specify:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any information necessary to explain how the Contracting Officer will
   evaluate price (for example, whether option prices will be evaluated);
   
   
   
   (b)	Any price-related factors that will be evaluated and their relative
   importance in the overall evaluation scheme;
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of the goods or services sought (including quantity
   requirements);
   
   
   
   (d)	The contract delivery schedule;
   
   
   
   (e)	A description of any special qualification requirements the contractor
   must satisfy;
   
   
   
   (f)	Instructions for submitting bids (including the deadline for bid
   submission, the method(s) for submitting bids, any representations or
   certifications bidders must submit, and any requirements for the submission of
   items such as bid samples, subcontracting plans, or payment or performance
   bonds);
   
   
   
   (g)	The period during which bids must remain open for acceptance; and
   
   
   
   (h)	The contract’s terms and conditions.

   4619.5. Any changes in the information set forth in an IFB must be made by an
   amendment to the IFB.

   4619.6. Bids shall be submitted by a method specifically permitted by the IFB
   (for example, hand delivery, mailing, electronic transmission, or fax).

   4619.7. A bid may be withdrawn or modified at any time before bid opening by
   any of the methods permitted for submitting bids.

   4619.8. A late bid (or late modification or withdrawal) shall not be
   considered, unless such delay is caused by the Hospital.

   4619.9. The Contracting Officer shall prepare and maintain in the contract
   file an abstract listing the bid prices.

   4619.10. The contract shall be awarded to the qualified bidder whose bid is
   responsive to the IFB and is most advantageous to the Hospital considering
   only price and the price-related evaluation factors identified in the IFB.

   4619.11. To be considered responsive, a bid must comply in all material
   respects with the IFB.   Responsiveness involves matters that relate to the
   bid itself as opposed to the responsibility or other qualifications of the
   bidder.  In determining whether a bid is responsive, the Contracting Officer
   has the discretion to permit correction of minor informalities or
   irregularities.

   4619.12. The Contracting Officer shall endeavor to include with every IFB
   solicitation the form of the contract that the contractor will be required to
   enter into.  To the greatest extent possible, the Contracting Officer should
   endeavor to provide clear and concise contract documents.  Contracts which
   consist of the solicitation, the proposal, and other documents attached
   together but not integrated into a single contract document are discouraged.
   
   Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 8507
   (October 8, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3086 (April 18, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4565, 4585 (May 27, 2011).
