                                  DC REGULATIONS

ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST; DISQUALIFICATION (§ 27-4607)

4607.1. The Hospital intends to avoid even the appearance of conflict of
   interest or impropriety in connection with its procurement activities.  Thus,
   even if a prospective contractor is determined to be responsible, the CCO has
   the discretion to disqualify the contractor (or to take other appropriate
   measures) based on a conflict of interest, the appearance thereof, or other
   ethical considerations as further described in subsections 4607.4 – 4607.7.

   4607.2. If the Contracting Officer determines that there is a conflict of
   interest, the appearance of a conflict of interest, or another ethical
   consideration, the Contracting Officer may:
   
   
   
   (a)	Disqualify a contractor at any point during procurement;
   
   
   
   (b)	Rescind or terminate a contract subsequent to contract award; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Take other appropriate corrective measures, such as canceling a pending
   solicitation and initiating a new procurement; provided, however, that prior
   to taking any such action, the Contracting Officer shall first obtain the
   approval of the CCO.

   4607.3. A determination by the Contracting Officer and the CCO to take a
   corrective measure described in subsection 4607.2 shall be made in writing and
   included in the contract file.

   4607.4. The ethical consideration(s) that may authorize disqualification or
   another corrective measure go beyond a violation of the ethics and conflict of
   interest rules of the Hospital and the prospective contractor, if any.  The
   CCO may properly take corrective measures whenever necessary or prudent to
   avoid the appearance of impropriety or otherwise eliminate doubts about the
   integrity and fairness of procurement.  For example, situations in which
   corrective measures might be warranted include (but are not limited to):
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Cases where a member of the Board of the Hospital or the CCO have any
   interest, direct or indirect, as principal, surety, or otherwise in a
   contract, where the expense or consideration of the contract is payable from
   Hospital funds.
   
   
   
   
   
   Cases where a director or employee of the Hospital involved in a procurement
   had an affiliation with a contractor that raised questions about the
   procurement’s integrity; 
   
   
   
   
   
   Cases where a prospective contractor received preferential treatment in
   relation to its competitors; 
   
   
   
   
   
   Cases where a prospective contractor hired a former employee of the Hospital
   who was privy to non-public information about the procurement, and involved
   that individual in its proposal preparation efforts; or 
   
   
   
   
   
   Cases where there is clear evidence suggesting collusive bidding or similar
   anti-competitive practices by prospective contractors.

   4607.5. Organizational conflicts of interest also may warrant disqualification
   or other corrective measures.  Organizational conflict of interest means a
   situation in which a contractor:
   
   
   
   (a)	May be unable to render impartial and objective assistance or advice to
   the Hospital; or
   
   
   
   (b)	May have an unfair advantage over potential competitors.

   4607.6. Organizational conflicts of interests can arise in a variety of
   circumstances.  For example, a contractor that develops the technical
   specifications for an item that will be the subject of a future procurement
   may have an incentive to develop specifications favoring its own products
   unless it is barred from participating in the future procurement.  Another
   example is a case where a contractor performs services for the Hospital that
   require access to non-public information (for example, proprietary data of
   other companies) and could therefore gain an unfair advantage over competitors
   in future procurements.

   4607.7. A number of measures may be appropriate for eliminating or mitigating
   organizational conflicts of interest, and the Contracting Officer has broad
   discretion to select the approach that is most suitable in any particular
   case.  For example, a contract to assist the Hospital in developing
   requirements for a future procurement ordinarily should include a clause
   prohibiting the contractor from participating in the future procurement.  A
   contract in which the contractor gains access to proprietary information of
   other companies (or non-public information on the Hospital’s procurement
   plans) should include an appropriate clause that prevents the contractor from
   using such information in any manner that might give it an unfair advantage
   and prohibits the contractor from disclosing this proprietary information.

   4607.8. In each case, the mechanism adopted to address an organizational
   conflict of interest should be designed to prevent:
   
   
   
   (a)	The existence of conflicting roles that might bias a contractor’s
   judgment; and
   
   
   
   (b)	An unfair competitive advantage.
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 8507
   (October 8, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3086 (April 18, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4565, 4570 (May 27, 2011).
