                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIAL METHODS OF CONTRACTING (§ 27-4614)

4614.1. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a Contracting
   Officer may award contracts with other organizations, public or private, for
   goods and services that are in the Hospital’s best interest.  As part of the
   procurement planning process, the Contracting Officer will determine the most
   appropriate method of contracting based on, among other considerations, the
   scope of work, delivery schedules, existing market conditions, and other
   relevant considerations.  The selection of any Special Method of Contracting
   shall be considered a competitive procurement for the purposes of this
   chapter.
   
   
   
   
   
   Cooperative Purchasing Agreements.  The Hospital shall be authorized and
   encouraged to participate in, sponsor, conduct, or administer Cooperative
   Purchasing Agreements and contracts with any other organization, public or
   private, including group purchasing organizations, hospitals and hospital
   consortiums, state, county, or municipal jurisdictions, for the purpose of
   procuring supplies and services, which shall include construction services or
   architectural and engineering services related to construction repairs,
   upgrades, restoration, alteration, and reconstruction of existing buildings
   and facilities.
   
   
   
   
   
   Cooperative Purchasing Agreements entered into by the Hospital shall be in
   accordance with, to the extent practicable, all laws, statutes, and
   regulations applicable to the Hospital with respect to contracting, and shall
   not be inconsistent with laws, statutes, and regulations of the United States
   government that apply specifically to the District.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Human Care Agreements –
   
   
   
   (1)	The Contracting Officer may award a human care agreement if:
   
   
   
   (A)	The procurement is for education or special education, health, human care,
   or social services to be provided directly to persons with disabilities, the
   disadvantaged, displaced, elderly, indigent, mentally ill, physically ill,
   unemployed, or minors in the custody of the Hospital;
   
   (B) 	The services being procured are negotiated on a fee for service or
   unit-rate basis using benchmarks and quantifiable measurements that shall be
   uniformly applied to providers of the same service, or purchased at rates
   adopted by regulation; and
   
   (C) 	The procurement is for one or more services that the Hospital typically
   purchases as needs arise, but for which the quantity, rate of utilization,
   delivery areas, or specific beneficiaries of the services cannot be accurately
   estimated at the outset of the procurement process.
   
   (2) 	The Contracting Officer shall publish, when a human care agreement is to
   be awarded, and at least annually after the initial awarding of the agreement,
   a request for qualifications that:(A) 	States the general requirements for the
   human care or
   
   			service; and(B) 	Requests interested service providers to respond in
   writing
   
   			with a statement of their qualifications to perform the
   
   			required services on a form prescribed by the CCO.
   
   
   
   (3) 	The Contracting Officer shall retain statements of qualifications
   submitted by providers for a period of three (3) years.
   
   
   
   (4) 	The Contracting Officer may conduct negotiations with any responsible
   service provider who has submitted a statement of qualifications, without any
   additional public notice or solicitation required, to satisfy all or part of
   the District&#8217;s anticipated requirements for a particular human care
   service.
   
   
   
   (5) 	The Contracting Officer shall make a written determination that the
   service provider is a responsible provider, based on the criteria set forth in
   section 4606, prior to conducting negotiations with a service provider for a
   human care agreement.
   
   
   
   (6)	 The Contracting Officer may award a human care agreement if he or she
   finds that the agreement is in the best interest of the District, based on an
   analysis of the District&#8217;s statement of requirements, the service
   provider&#8217;s qualifications, and a judgment that the fee or unit-cost for
   services is reasonable.
   
   
   
   (7)	 The Contracting Officer may authorize the use of vouchers to authorize
   the delivery of service provided by providers who enter into human care
   agreements.
   
   
   
   (8)	 The Contracting Officer shall provide public notice of the award of a
   human care agreement pursuant to this section on the Internet site maintained
   by the Hospital.
   
   
   
   (9)	The human care agreement shall identify the services to be rendered during
   the term of the agreement and shall set forth the terms and conditions of any
   purchases issued pursuant to the agreement. The Contracting Officer shall
   include in each human care agreement the following information:
   
   (A)	A statement that the human care agreement is not a commitment to purchase
   any quantity of a particular good or service covered under the agreement; and
   
   
   
   (B)	A statement that the District is obligated only to the extent that
   authorized purchases are made pursuant to the human care agreement.
   
   
   
   
   
   Contracts with Federal Agencies &#8211; The CCO or designee, may authorize
   Contracting Officers to place orders, if the CCO determines it to be in the
   best interest of the Hospital, with any federal department, establishment,
   bureau, or office for materials, supplies, equipment, work, or services of any
   kind that such federal agency may be in a position to supply or be equipped to
   render, by contract, supply schedule, or otherwise, and shall pay promptly by
   check to such federal agency, upon its written request, either in advance or
   upon furnishing or performance thereof, all or part of the estimated or actual
   costs thereof as determined by such department, establishment, bureau, or
   office as may be requisitioned; but proper adjustments on the basis of the
   actual costs of the materials, supplies or equipment furnished or work or
   services performed, paid for in advance, shall be made as may be agreed upon
   by the departments, establishments, bureaus, or offices concerned. Orders
   placed as provided in this subsection shall be considered as obligations upon
   appropriations in the same manner as orders or contracts placed with private
   contractors.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Contracts with District Agencies &#8211; The CCO or designee may authorize
   Contracting Officers to place orders with any department, office, or agency of
   the District for materials, supplies, equipment, work, or services of any kind
   that the requisitioned department, office, or agency may be in a position to
   supply or equipped to render.  The Hospital placing any such orders shall
   either advance, subject to proper adjustment on the basis of actual cost, or
   reimburse, such department, office or agency the actual cost of materials,
   supplies, or equipment furnished or work or services performed as determined
   by such department, office, or agency as may be requisitioned. Orders placed
   as provided in this subsection shall be considered as obligations upon
   appropriations in the same manner as orders or contracts placed with private
   contractors.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Letter Contracts &#8211; A letter contract may be used only after the
   Contracting Officer determines, in writing, that no other type of contract is
   suitable.  A letter contract shall not commit the Hospital to a definitive
   contract in excess of the funds available at the time the letter contract is
   executed.  The Contracting Officer may use a letter contract when the
   Hospital’s interests demand that the contractor be given a binding
   commitment so that work can start immediately and executing a definitive
   contract is not possible in sufficient time to meet the requirement. Each
   letter contract shall be as complete and definite as possible under the
   circumstances and shall include clauses approved and required by the CCO. 
   When a letter contract is executed, the Contracting Officer shall include a
   price ceiling for the anticipated definitive contract. The price ceiling shall
   not be exceeded.  Each letter contract shall also include a clause indicating
   the maximum liability of the Hospital under the letter contract.  The maximum
   liability to the Hospital shall be the estimated amount necessary to cover the
   contractor&#8217;s requirement for funds before execution of the definitive
   contract.  The Contracting Officer may execute a definitive contract after the
   date of execution of the letter contract.  Prior to execution of a letter
   contract, the Contracting Officer shall ensure that funds are encumbered for
   obligation in the amount of the maximum Hospital liability for the term of the
   letter contract.  For purposes of review and approval of letter contracts, and
   for purposes of contracting authority, the Contracting Officer shall use the
   estimated cost of the definitive contract for determining the type and level
   of review and approval required.
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 8507
   (October 8, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3086 (April 18, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4565, 4578 (May 27, 2011).
