                                  DC REGULATIONS

PUBLICIZING PROCUREMENT OPPORTUNITIES (§ 27-4610)

4610.1. The Contracting Officer may use a variety of methods to publicize
   procurement.  The specific method or methods used should be tailored to the
   particular procurement, taking into account factors such as the size of the
   procurement, the type of goods or services sought, the urgency associated with
   the requirement, and the most efficient means of disseminating information in
   the relevant market.  The methods available to publicize procurement
   opportunities may include print advertising, Internet notices, developing
   source lists of qualified firms known to supply particular categories of goods
   or services, soliciting specific sources through written notices or telephone
   contacts, and holding pre-bid or pre-proposal conferences.

   4610.2. The Contracting Officer shall use best efforts to provide (either
   electronically or in paper format) a copy of all solicitations (other than
   solicitations issued through its small purchase procedures) to CBE firms
   listed on the Department of Small and Local Business Development’s website
   that may be capable of providing some or all of the services or goods required
   by a solicitation.  The Contracting Officer shall also conduct outreach and
   provide information to CBEs on at least an annual basis.

   4610.3. In addition to publication or other method of publicizing the
   procurement opportunity described in subsection 4610.1, unless otherwise
   specified in this chapter, the Contracting Officer shall also compile a list
   of at least three (3) vendors that the Contracting Officer reasonably believes
   are qualified to provide the services or goods specified in a solicitation and
   shall provide those vendors with a copy of the solicitation.  If the
   Contracting Officer is unable to locate at least three (3) potential vendors,
   the Contracting Officer shall provide the solicitation to as many vendors as
   the Contracting Officer can reasonably identify.
   
   Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 8507
   (October 8, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3086 (April 18, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4565, 4574 (May 27, 2011).
