                                  DC REGULATIONS

RESPONSIBILITY (§ 27-4606)

4606.1. To receive a contract from the Hospital, a contractor must be
   responsible.  To be considered responsible, a contractor must:
   
   
   
   (a)	Have or provide evidence that it can obtain the financial, technical, and
   organizational skills and resources, and the facilities and equipment,
   necessary to perform the contract in accordance with its terms;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a satisfactory performance record;
   
   
   
   (c)	Have a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics;
   
   
   
   (d)	Not be suspended, debarred, or otherwise ineligible to receive contracts
   from the District Government or the Federal Government;
   
   
   
   (e)	Meet any other qualification criteria that may be imposed by applicable
   laws or regulations; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Provide adequate evidence that it has paid all applicable District of
   Columbia and Federal taxes and filed District and Federal tax returns.

   4606.2. The Contracting Officer shall make a written determination if the
   contractor is found to be non-responsible.  Depending on the level of
   formality of the contract and at the Contracting Officer’s discretion, the
   Contracting Officer may make a written determination if the contractor is
   found to be responsible.  Award of a contract shall be considered the
   Contracting Officer’s determination that the contractor is responsible.

   4606.3. In evaluating a prospective contractor’s responsibility, a
   Contracting Officer may request information from the contractor and may also
   consider information available from other sources.  Where necessary, the
   Contracting Officer may also perform a pre-award survey involving interviews
   with contractor personnel or visits to the contractor’s facilities. 
   Information on the capabilities and suitability of proposed subcontractors
   also may be considered in evaluating responsibility.
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 8507
   (October 8, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3086 (April 18, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4565, 4569 (May 27, 2011).
