                                  DC REGULATIONS

MARKET RESEARCH (§ 27-4608)

4608.1. Before issuing a solicitation, making a purchase, or awarding a
   contract, the Hospital may:
   
   
   
   (a)	Estimate the likely cost of the proposed procurement and assure that
   adequate funds are available; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Conduct appropriate market research and establish minimum needs.

   4608.2. Market research is designed primarily to familiarize the Hospital with
   the market for the goods or services it seeks to acquire in order to develop
   an appropriate strategy for conducting a prompt and efficient procurement that
   promotes reasonable competition between qualified firms.  The extent of market
   research will vary depending on factors such as urgency, the size and
   complexity of the proposed procurement, and the Hospital’s existing
   knowledge of the market based on its (or its key personnel’s) past
   experience in procuring similar goods or services.  If the Hospital has such
   existing knowledge, market research is not required.

   4608.3. Market research, to the extent it is relevant to the particular
   procurement and not already known to the Hospital, generally should focus on
   obtaining information such as the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Customary practices in the relevant market;
   
   
   
   (b)	The prospective sources that may be able to supply the goods or services;
   
   
   
   (c)	The opportunities for participation by firms that qualify as CBEs;
   
   
   
   (d)	The benchmarks available to evaluate the likely cost of the procurement
   and the reasonableness of prices or costs proposed by prospective contractors;
   and
   
   
   
   (e)	The requirements of any laws or regulations unique to the procurement.

   4608.4. In conducting market research, the Hospital may solicit information
   from prospective sources on matters such as their interest in the potential
   procurement, the characteristics and costs of their products or services,
   their customary practices, and their knowledge of the industry generally. 
   Such information may be solicited by requesting interested parties to submit
   written information (for example, by posting a notice on the Internet seeking
   information pertinent to the proposed procurement), through meetings or
   telephone contacts, by distributing and seeking comments on a draft
   solicitation, or through other prudent means.

   4608.5. In addition to soliciting information from prospective contractors,
   the Hospital may also obtain information from other sources.  For example,
   price information that can assist in estimating the likely cost of the
   procurement and in evaluating price reasonableness is frequently available
   from sources such as catalogs, Internet sites, or records of past
   procurements.
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 8507
   (October 8, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3086 (April 18, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4565, 4572 (May 27, 2011).
