                                  DC REGULATIONS

COST REIMBURSEMENT CONTRACTS (§ 27-4613)

4613.1. Cost reimbursement contracts provide for the contractor to recover the
   reimbursable costs it incurs in contract performance, plus a fee (that is, a
   profit).

   4613.2. A reimbursable cost must be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Reasonable in nature and amount;
   
   
   
   (b)	Properly allocable to the contract;
   
   
   
   (c)	Determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	Not identified as nonreimbursable under the terms of the particular
   contract.

   4613.3. To ensure that the Hospital’s payment obligations are not
   open-ended, a cost reimbursement contract must specify an estimated total cost
   that the contractor cannot exceed (the “not-to-exceed limit”), except at
   its own risk, without the Contracting Officer’s written approval.  Because
   the contractor can cease performance once it reaches the estimated total cost
   (unless the Contracting Officer approves an increase), it is not obligated to
   complete the contract work unless it can do so within the not-to-exceed limit.

   4613.4. Cost reimbursement contracts can take three (3) forms:
   
   
   
   (a)	Cost-plus-fixed-fee;
   
   
   
   (b)	Cost-plus-incentive-fee; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Cost-plus-award-fee.

   4613.5. The differences between the types of cost reimbursement contracts
   listed in subsection 4613.4 relate to the manner in which the contractor’s
   fee is determined.

   4613.6. A cost-plus-fixed-fee contract provides for a fee that is fixed at the
   contract’s inception and is not subject to adjustment unless the contract is
   modified to change the contract work.

   4613.7. A cost-plus-incentive-fee contract provides for a fee that generally
   is determined by applying a formula based on the relationship between the
   contractor’s total reimbursable cost and a total target cost, subject to a
   specified minimum and maximum.  These contracts also can include incentive
   formulas based on the contractor’s schedule or technical performance.

   4613.8. A cost-plus-award-fee contract provides for:
   
   
   
   (a)	A base fee fixed at the contract’s inception; and
   
   
   
   (b)	An award fee that the contractor may earn (in whole or in part) during
   performance, which is designed to motivate superior performance.

   4613.9. The award fee in a cost-plus-award-fee contract is determined
   unilaterally by the Contracting Officer, based on the Contracting Officer’s
   judgment and evaluation of how well the contractor has performed in relation
   to the award fee criteria identified in the contract.  In no event shall the
   total award fee available to the contractor exceed ten percent (10%).

   4613.10. In appropriate circumstances, the Contracting Officer may include a
   guaranteed maximum price (GMP) in a cost reimbursement contract.  A GMP
   differs from a not-to-exceed amount in that a contractor is required to
   complete performance of the base scope of work required under the contract for
   an amount that does not exceed the GMP.  Under such an approach, if the total
   cost exceeds the GMP, the contractor shall be required to complete performance
   of the base scope of work at its own cost and expense.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 8507
   (October 8, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3086 (April 18, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4565, 4576 (May 27, 2011).
