                                  DC REGULATIONS

SOLE SOURCE CONTRACTS (ยง 27-4618)

4618.1. Procurement contracts may be awarded through noncompetitive
   negotiations when the CCO or the CCO designee determines in writing that one
   (1) of the following conditions exists:
   
   
   
   (a) 	There is only one (1) source for the required commodity, service, or
   construction item;
   
   
   
   (b)	The scope of work is necessary to meet an essential requirement of the
   Hospital and the vendor is the only source that is readily available to
   perform in the time necessary to meet the essential requirement of the
   Hospital;
   
   
   
   (c) 	The contract is with a vendor who maintains a price agreement or schedule
   with any federal agency, so long as no contract executed under this provision
   authorizes a price higher than is contained in the contract between the
   federal agency and the vendor;
   
   
   
   (d)	The contract is with a vendor who agrees to adopt the same pricing
   schedule for the same services or goods as that of a vendor who maintains a
   price agreement or schedule with any federal agency, if no contract executed
   under this paragraph authorizes a price higher than is contained in the
   contract between the federal agency and the vendor; or 
   
   (e)	When an emergency has been declared by the Board.

   4618.2. If the Contracting Officer makes a determination pursuant to
   subsection 4618.1 that a sole source procurement is necessary to meet an
   essential requirement of the Hospital, the Contracting Officer shall document
   such determination in writing and may procure goods, services, or construction
   without regard to the procedures set forth elsewhere in this chapter.
   
   4618.3 	A written determination by the Contracting Officer supporting a single
   available source procurement pursuant to subsection 4618.1(a) shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the nature of the goods or services; and
   
   
   
   (b)	An explanation of why the goods or services are only available from a
   single source.

   4618.4. A written determination by the Contracting Officer supporting an
   emergency procurement pursuant to subsection 4618.1(e) shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	A finding that circumstances which were not reasonably foreseeable by the
   Hospital have created a need for goods, services, or construction which, if
   not immediately filled, will endanger the continuation of an essential
   function of the Hospital;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of steps taken, if any, to solicit bids or proposals under
   the emergency condition; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A finding that anticipated costs to the Hospital will be fair and
   reasonable.

   4618.5. The Contracting Officer shall not make a procurement under this
   section to meet a continuing need of the Hospital beyond what is necessary to
   meet the emergency condition.
   
   Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 8507
   (October 8, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3086 (April 18, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4565, 4584 (May 27, 2011).
