                                  DC REGULATIONS

PAYMENT REQUESTS (§ 27-4624)

4624.1. Except as provided by Subsection 4624.8, requests for payment must be
   submitted in writing by the contractor together with a valid written contract.

   4624.2. Contractor payment requests shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Certify that the contractor is entitled to payment in the requested
   amount; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Include or attach any information necessary to demonstrate entitlement to
   the requested payment under the contract’s terms.

   4624.3. Depending on the contract payment provisions, a payment request may
   consist of, for example, a statement that specified work has been completed in
   a satisfactory manner, documentation showing that contract deliverables have
   been accepted by the Hospital, or information detailing the reimbursable costs
   incurred by the contractor.

   4624.4. Payment shall not be made unless authorized by the Contracting
   Officer.  A Contracting Officer’s payment authorization shall not preclude
   the Hospital from seeking repayment (or pursuing other remedies) if it
   subsequently concludes that the contractor was overpaid or otherwise misled
   the Hospital.

   4624.5. In addition to the Contracting Officer’s payment authorization, all
   payment requests, except those utilizing simplified contracting procedures
   under section 4621, must be certified and approved by the Hospital’s Chief
   Financial Officer (or his or her designee) prior to making any payment.

   4624.6. No Hospital employee shall authorize payment for the value of supplies
   and services received without a valid written contract.  Any vendor who enters
   into an oral agreement with a Hospital employee to provide supplies or
   services to the Hospital without a valid written contract shall not be paid.
   This subsection shall not apply to a payment required by court order, a final
   decision of an authorized forum, or an approval by the CCO in accordance with
   Subsection 4624.8 of this section.

   4624.7. The CCO or designee shall review and verify requests submitted by a
   Contracting Officer for authorization for payment for supplies or services
   received without a valid written contract, and shall either approve or
   disapprove requests for authorization for payment.

   4624.8. The CCO or designee may authorize payments for supplies or services
   received without a valid written contract if:
   
   
   
   (a) 	supplies or services have been provided to and accepted by the Hospital,
   or the Hospital otherwise has obtained or will obtain a benefit resulting from
   provision of supplies or services without a valid written contract;
   
   
   
   (b) 	the Contracting Officer determines that the price for the supplies or
   services provided without a valid written contract is fair and reasonable;
   
   
   
   (c) 	the Contracting Officer recommends payment for the supplies or services
   provided without a valid written contract;
   
   
   
   (d) 	the Chief Financial Officer, or a designee, certifies that appropriated
   funds are available; and
   
   
   
   (e) 	the request for authorization for payment for supplies or services
   received without a valid written contract is in accordance with any other
   procedures or limitations prescribed by the CCO.

   4624.9. No authorization for payment for supplies and services received
   without a valid written contract shall occur more than one (1) time with the
   same vendor.

   4624.10. An authorization for payment for supplies and services received
   without a valid written contract may be used for obligations incurred after
   August 31, 2012, only if, in addition to the requirements of Subsection 4624.8
   of this section, the contracting officer certifies in writing that:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All payments requested are critical and necessary for the ongoing provision of
   medical care to patients; and
   
   
   
   
   
   Under his or her good faith assessment, the Hospital must make the requested
   payment to continue operating the Hospital without interruption of critical
   and necessary patient care services.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 8507
   (October 8, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3086 (April 18, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4565, 4591 (May 27, 2011); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 14820 (December 14, 2012).
