                                  DC REGULATIONS

PREPARING SOLICITATIONS (§ 27-4609)

4609.1. After conducting market research, when required, the Contracting
   Officer shall make a determination as to which procurement method identified
   in section 4614 of these regulations is most beneficial to the Hospital.  The
   Contracting Officer will ordinarily prepare a solicitation requesting
   responses; however, the Contracting Officer may determine to purchase the
   required goods or services through its small purchase procedures or from a
   federal or District supply schedule contract, or any other method set forth in
   this chapter.

   4609.2. When the Contracting Officer issues a solicitation, its length and
   contents will depend on factors such as the size of the procurement, the
   nature and complexity of the goods or services, the contracting procedure to
   be used, and the contract type.  In general, however, a solicitation should
   clearly describe the Hospital’s needs (for example, by providing a statement
   of work outlining the type of services required or information specifying
   product characteristics or capabilities) and method of award.

   4609.3. In preparing a solicitation, the Contracting Officer should seek to
   enhance competition by carefully scrutinizing and eliminating, to the extent
   possible, any unnecessary requirements that may restrict the number of
   prospective sources or the range of goods or services they can offer.  Such
   provisions may include, for example, technical specifications that
   unnecessarily limit the competitive field, unnecessarily aggressive delivery
   schedules, or burdensome terms and conditions that might deter smaller
   companies from competing.

   4609.4. The Contracting Officer may issue solicitations in paper form or
   electronically.  The Contracting Officer may also use oral solicitations where
   efficient and practical (for example, where the procurement does not involve
   extensive specifications, detailed evaluation criteria, or numerous line
   items).  Oral solicitations shall not be used for contracts that have an
   estimated value in excess of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).

   4609.5. The Contracting Officer with the approval of the CCO may cancel a
   solicitation or reject all bids or proposals received at any time before the
   contract award when the Contracting Officer determines in writing that the
   cancellation is in the Hospital’s best interests.
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 8507
   (October 8, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3086 (April 18, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4565, 4573 (May 27, 2011).
