                                  DC REGULATIONS

BASIC ORDERING AGREEMENTS (§ 27-4615)

4615.1. Under basic ordering agreements (also known as task order contracts or
   term contracts), the contractor’s performance obligations are triggered when
   the Contracting Officer subsequently issues task orders pursuant to the
   contract.

   4615.2. Basic ordering agreements include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Requirements contracts; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Indefinite quantities contracts.

   4615.3. A requirements contract provides the mechanism for the Contracting
   Officer to order from the contractor all of its requirements for designated
   supplies or services during a specified period (subject to any maximum
   ordering limitation in the contract).  This type of contract should only be
   used when the Contracting Officer determines that a requirements contract will
   provide superior economic benefits to an indefinite quantity contract as it
   locks the Contracting Officer into one (1) source of supply for the goods or
   services required under the basic ordering agreement.  A requirements contract
   must be approved by the CCO in addition to the Contracting Officer.

   4615.4. An indefinite quantity contract provides for an indefinite quantity,
   within specified limits, of supplies or services to be furnished during a
   fixed period.

   4615.5. An indefinite quantity contract:
   
   
   
   (a)	Requires the Hospital to order and the contractor to deliver at least the
   stated minimum quantity of supplies or services; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Requires the contractor to deliver any additional quantities the Hospital
   may order during the contract period (subject to any maximum quantity
   limitations in the contract).

   4615.6. The Contracting Officer may award a single indefinite quantity
   contract for particular goods or services, or may award multiple contracts and
   choose between the selected contractors in awarding subsequent delivery
   orders.

   4615.7. If an indefinite quantity contract is used, the Contracting Officer
   shall establish, at the time the basic ordering agreements are awarded, a
   procedure by which work will be awarded under the basic ordering agreements
   (“award procedure”).

   4615.8. Generally, one (1) of the following two (2) award procedures shall be
   used:
   
   
   
   (a)	The rotating award procedure, where work is assigned on a rotation basis
   (that is, the first task order is given to Contractor A, the second task order
   to Contractor B, etc.); or
   
   
   
   (b)	The competitive award procedure, where the Contracting Officer requests
   task order proposals from two (2) or more contractors holding an indefinite
   delivery contract.

   4615.9. The competitive award procedure is preferred.

   4615.10. If the competitive award procedure is used, each task order request
   shall specify:
   
   
   
   (a)	The specific goods or services required;
   
   
   
   (b)	A delivery date; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Such other information as the Contracting Officer may reasonably request.
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 8507
   (October 8, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3086 (April 18, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4565, 4582 (May 27, 2011).
