                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTINUING EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS (§ 17-6706)

Subject to § 6706.2, this section shall apply to applicants for the renewal,

reactivation, or reinstatement of a license for a term expiring on or after
	January 31, 2013, and for subsequent terms.



6706.2 	This section shall not apply to applicants for the first renewal of a
license.



6706.3 	A continuing education credit shall be valid only if it is approved by
the 			Board in accordance with § 6707.



6706.4 	To qualify for a license, an applicant for renewal of a license shall:







Have completed four (4) continuing education units or forty (40) credit hours of
approved continuing education credit during the two (2) year period immediately
preceding the date the license expires, which shall include not more than two
(2) continuing education units or twenty (20) credit hours of approved
continuing education credits earned through internet courses;







Attest to completion of the required continuing education units or credits on
the renewal application form; and







Be subject to a random audit.



6706.5  	A licensee who is selected to participate in the Board’s continuing

		education audit shall, within thirty (30) days after receiving notice of the

		selection, submit proof pursuant to § 6706.8 of having completed the
			required  approved continuing education credits during the two (2)-year
			period immediately preceding the date the license expires.







To qualify for a license, a person in inactive status, within the meaning of §
511 of the Act (D.C. Official Code § 3-1205.11(2007 Repl.)) for five (5) years
or less who submits an application to reactivate a license shall submit proof
pursuant to §  6706.7 of having completed the following within the two (2)
year period preceding the date of the application for reactivation of that
applicant’s license:



(a)  	Four (4) continuing education units or forty (40) credit hours of approved
continuing education credits; and







	An additional two (2) continuing education units or twenty (20) credit

		hours of approved continuing education credit for each additional year that
the applicant was in inactive status beginning with the third year; provided,
that the maximum total number of units and credits required under paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this subsection shall not exceed ten (10) continuing education units
or one hundred (100) hours.







To qualify for a license, a person in inactive status, within the meaning of §
511 of the Act (D.C. Official Code § 3-1205.11(2007 Repl.)) for more than five
(5) years who submits an application to reactivate a license shall submit proof
pursuant to § 6706.9  of having completed the following within the two (2) year
period preceding the date of the application for reactivation of that
applicant’s license:



(a)  	Four (4) continuing education units or forty (40) credit hours of approved
continuing education credits;



(b)		An additional two (2) continuing education units or twenty (20) credit

		hours of approved continuing education credit for each additional year that
the applicant was in inactive status beginning with the third year provided,
that the maximum total number of units and credits required under paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this subsection shall not exceed ten (10) continuing education units
or one hundred (100) hours; and







	Proof of achieving a rating of “Sufficiently Qualified” on the Federation
of State Boards of Physical Therapy’s Practice Review Tool, or of successful
completion of a Board-approved reentry course.







To qualify for a license, an applicant for reinstatement of a license that has

expired pursuant to § 512(b) of the Act (D.C. Official Code §
3-1205.12(b)(2007 Repl.)) shall submit proof pursuant to § 6706.9 of having
completed:



(a)	 Four (4) continuing education units or forty (40) credit hours of
			approved continuing education credits within the two (2) year 			period
preceding the date of the application for reinstatement; and



(b)	An additional two (2) continuing education units or twenty (20) 			credit
hours of approved continuing education credit for each 			additional year that
the license was expired beginning with the 			third year; provided, that the
maximum total number of units and 			credits required under paragraphs (a) and
(b) of this subsection 			shall not exceed ten (10) continuing education units
or one hundred 		(100) hours.







Except as provided in § 6706.10, an applicant under this section shall prove
completion of the required continuing education credits by submitting with the
application the following information with respect to each program for which
continuing education credit is claimed, and shall maintain for a period of at
least five (5) years the following information with respect to each program:



(a) 	The name and address of the sponsor of the program;



(b) 	The name of the program;



(c)  	The location of the program;



(d)  	A description of the subject matter covered in the program;



(e)  	The names of the program instructors;



(f) 	The dates on which the applicant attended the program;



(g) 	The hours of credit claimed; and



(h) 	Verification by the sponsor of completion, by signature or stamp.







Applicants for renewal of a license shall only be required to prove completion
of the required continuing education credits by submitting proof pursuant to §
6706.9 if requested to do so as part of the random audit, or if otherwise
requested to do so by the Board.







An applicant for renewal of a license who fails to submit proof of having

completed the continuing education requirements by the date the license 	expires
may renew the license up to thirty (30) days after the expiration by 	submitting
this proof and paying the required additional late fee.







Upon submission of proof and payment, the applicant shall be deemed to have
possessed a valid license during the period between the expiration of the
license and the submission of the proof and payment.







If an applicant for renewal of a license fails to submit proof of completion of
continuing education requirements or pay the late fee within thirty (30) days
after the expiration of the applicant’s license, the license shall be
considered to have lapsed on the date of expiration.







The Board may, in its discretion, grant an extension of the thirty (30) day
period to renew after expiration if the applicant’s failure to submit proof of
completion was for good cause.  For the purposes of this section, good cause
includes the following:



(a) 	Serious and protracted illness of the applicant; and



(b) 	The death or serious and protracted illness of a member of the
applicant&#8217;s immediate family.







If an applicant for renewal of a license fails to submit proof of having
completed continuing education requirements by the date the license expires, the
applicant shall not practice until his or her license has been renewed.



	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 945, 948 (February 12, 1988); as
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 6451 (June 25, 2004); as amended
by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 2600 (March 14, 2008); as amended by
Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 5462 (July 1, 2011).
