                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUIREMENTS FOR PHYSICAL THERAPISTS TO PERFORM INTRAMUSCULAR MANUAL THERAPY (§
17-6716)

Intramuscular manual therapy may be performed by a licensed physical therapist
who meets the requirements of this section.







Intramuscular manual therapy shall be performed directly by the licensed
physical therapist and shall not be delegated.







Intramuscular manual therapy shall be performed in a manner that is consistent
with generally accepted standards of practice, including clean needle
techniques, and other applicable standards of the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention.







Intramuscular manual therapy is an advanced procedure that requires specialized
training.  A physical therapist shall not perform intramuscular manual therapy
in the District of Columbia unless he or she has documented proof of completing:







	A Board-approved professional training program on intramuscular manual therapy.
 The training program shall require each trainee to demonstrate cognitive and
psychomotor knowledge and skills.  The training program shall be attended in
person by the physical therapist,  shall not be attended online or through any
other means of distance learning, and shall not be a self-study program







	A professional training program on intramuscular manual therapy accredited by
the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE).  The
training program shall require each trainee to demonstrate cognitive and
psychomotor knowledge and skills.  The training program shall be attended in
person by the physical therapist,  shall not be attended online or through any
other means of distance learning, and shall not be a self-study program; or







	Graduate or higher-level coursework in a CAPTE-approved educational program
that included intramuscular manual therapy in the curriculum.







A physical therapist shall only perform intramuscular manual therapy following
an

		examination and diagnosis, and for the purpose of treating specific anatomic

		entities selected according to physical signs.







A physical therapist who performs intramuscular manual therapy shall obtain
written informed consent from each patient who will receive intramuscular manual
therapy before the physical therapist performs intramuscular manual therapy on
the patient.







The informed consent form shall include, at a minimum, the following:







	The patient’s signature;







	The risks and benefits of intramuscular manual therapy;







	The physical therapist’s level of education and training in intramuscular
manual therapy; and







	A clearly and conspicuously written statement that the patient is not receiving
acupuncture.







A physical therapist who performs intramuscular manual therapy shall maintain a
separate procedure note in the patient’s chart for each intramuscular manual
therapy.  The note shall indicate how the patient tolerated the intervention as
well as the outcome after the intramuscular manual therapy.







A physical therapist who performs intramuscular manual therapy shall be required
to produce documentation of meeting the requirements of this section immediately
upon request by the Board or an agent of the Board.







Failure by a physical therapist to provide written documentation of meeting the
training requirements of this section shall be deemed prima facie evidence that
the physical therapist is not competent and not permitted to perform
intramuscular manual therapy.











	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 817 (January 28, 2011).
