                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES (§ 17-6707)

The Board may, in its discretion, approve continuing education programs and
   activities that contribute to the growth of an applicant in professional
   competence in the practice of physical therapy and which meet the other
   requirements of this section.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Board may approve the following types of continuing education programs, if
   the program meets the requirements of § 6707.3:
   
   
   
   (a) 	An undergraduate or graduate course given at an accredited college or
   university;
   
   
   
   (b) 	A seminar or workshop;
   
   
   
   (c) 	An education program given at a conference;
   
   
   
   (d) 	In-service training;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Home study courses;
   
   
   
   (f)  	Real-time, interactive remote media courses; and
   
   
   
   (g)		 Online courses, video courses, telecourses, videoconferences, and
   teleconferences offered by colleges or universities accredited by an agency
   
   		recognized for that purpose by the United States Department of Education, or
   which is approved by the Board, in accordance with § 504(j) of the Act (D.C.
   Official Code § 3-1205.04(j)(2007 Repl.)), or pre-approved by the American
   Physical Therapy Association (APTA) or the Board for two (2) or more credit
   hours.

   6707.3. Not more than one-half (1/2) of the total required number of
   Continuing 				Education Units (CEUs) may be accepted in any renewal period,
   or for
   
   		reinstatement or reactivation of a license, for approved online courses,
   				video courses, telecourses, videoconferences, and teleconference
   					activities.
   
   
   
   6707.4 	The limitation set forth in § 6707.3 shall not apply to the
   Federation of 			State Boards of Physical Therapy’s Practice Review Tool or
   to Board-			approved courses which grant more than twenty (20) credit hours
   for a 			single course.
   
   
   
   6707.5 	To qualify for approval by the Board, a continuing education program
   			shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Be current in its subject matter;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Be developed and taught by qualified individuals; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	Meet one (1) of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Be administered or approved by a recognized national, state, or
   
   	local physical therapy organization, a health care organization, and
   
   	accredited health care facility, or an accredited college or
   
   	university; or
   
   
   
   (2) 	Be submitted by the program sponsor or the applicant to the Board
   
   	for review no less than sixty (60) days before the date of the
   
   	presentation and be approved by the Board.
   
   
   
   6707.6 	The Board has pre-approved for acceptance all physical therapy
   					continuing education seminars, workshops, or programs administered or
   				approved by:
   
   
   
   (a)  	The American Physical Therapy Association (APTA);
   
   
   
   (b)  	The Federation of State Boards of Physical Therapy (FSBPT);
   
   
   
   (c)  	The American Occupational Therapy Association, Inc.;
   
   
   
   (d)  	A health care facility accredited by the Joint Commission;
   
   
   
   (e)  		A college or university approved by an accrediting body recognized by
   the
   
   			Council on Postsecondary Accreditation or the Secretary of the United
   States Department of Education; or
   
   
   
   (f)  			Any of the following organizations if the training is substantially
   
   	 		related to physical therapy services:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The American Medical Association under Physician Category I; and
   
   
   
   (2)  	The American Nurses Association.

   6707.7. The Board may issue and update a list of approved continuing education
   
   programs.

   6707.8. An applicant shall have the burden of verifying whether a program is
   			approved by the Board pursuant to this section prior to attending the
   			program.

   6707.9. The Board may approve the following continuing education activities by
   			an applicant:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Serving as an instructor or speaker at a conference, seminar, or workshop;
   
   
   
   (b)  	In-service training;
   
   
   
   (c)  	Publication of an article in a professional journal, publication of a
   book
   
   	or a chapter in a book, or publication of a book review in a professional
   journal or bulletin; and
   
   
   
   (d)  	Participating in research as a principal investigator or research
   assistant.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 945, 949 (February 12, 1988); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 6451 (June 25, 2004); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 5462, 5465 (July 1,
   2011).
