                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (§ 18-500)

500.1. The rules and regulations contained in this chapter shall govern the
   registration of new and used car dealers in the District of Columbia, the
   issuance and use of dealer tags and special use tags by dealers, and the
   maintenance of records by dealers.

   500.2. No person, unless registered under the provisions of this chapter,
   shall carry on or conduct the business of a dealer in motor vehicles,
   trailers, or semitrailers of a type subject to registration.

   500.3. All certificates of manufacture, certificates of title, papers issued
   by another jurisdiction in connection with titling and registration,
   registration cards, temporary registration certificates, records of issuance
   of temporary registration certificates, and triplicate copies of special use
   certificates, while in the possession of any dealer registered under this
   chapter, shall be subject to inspection upon demand of the Director or of any
   police officer.

   500.4. All vehicles and places of business of dealers registered under this
   chapter shall be subject to inspection upon demand of the Director or of any
   police officer.

   500.5. No dealer may accept an open assignment of a motor vehicle title or
   bill of sale that does not identify the dealer as the purchaser or assignee of
   the motor vehicle.

   500.6. A dealer shall inform the Department of any change in business
   ownership or location within five (5) business days of any such change.

   500.7. All dealers or their agents shall attend any mandatory training
   required by the Department after receiving notice of the training sent by
   regular mail to the address on the dealer’s registration; except for good
   cause shown as determined by the Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 11340 (December 10, 2004); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 9084 (August 22, 2008).
