                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEALER IDENTIFICATION TAGS (§ 18-503)

503.1. Dealer identification tags issued to a registered dealer shall be used
   solely for the purpose of operating vehicles owned by the dealer, if directly
   in furtherance of the business of the dealer, and only by the following
   persons:
   
   
   
   (a)	The dealer, provided they carry proof of dealer registration at the time
   of operation;
   
   
   
   (b)	The dealer’s salesperson, provided they carry their salesperson’s
   license at the time of operation; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The dealer’s customer, provided:
   
   
   
   (1)	The customer is accompanied by the dealer or the dealer’s salesperson
   and such person carries proof required by (a) or (b) at the time of operation;
   or
   
   
   
   (2)	The vehicle displays a temporary registration certificate issued to that
   customer, as provided in §503.8.

   503.2. Dealer transport tags may be issued to a registered dealer for use
   solely by a dealer’s subcontractor, or the subcontractor’s employee(s),
   provided:
   
   
   
   (a)	The tags are used in connection with the repair or improvement of the
   vehicle;
   
   
   
   (b)	The vehicle is being operated between the dealership and the repair
   location; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The operator carries either proof of a contractual relationship regarding
   such a repair, or an affidavit, signed by the dealer, that states the repair
   location and that the condition in (a) is satisfied.

   503.3. A dealer identification tag or dealer transport tag shall be displayed
   on the rear of a motor vehicle when in use.

   503.4. Dealer tags shall be issued as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Two (2) dealer tags per dealer, with a maximum of four (4) tags per
   business;
   
   
   
   (b)	One (1) dealer tag per salesperson (other than owner); and
   
   
   
   (c)	Two (2) dealer transport tags per business.

   503.5. A dealer may replace no more than one (1) lost or stolen dealer
   identification tag or dealer transport tag every six (6) months, upon proof of
   the filing of a police report or other proof satisfactory to the Director. The
   Director may waive the time limitation of this subsection for good cause
   shown.

   503.6. A dealer shall have motor vehicle insurance that covers the number of
   vehicles that can be operated using all the dealer tags and dealer transport
   tags issued to that dealer.

   503.7. Dealer tags and dealer transport tags shall expire on October 31 of
   each year.

   503.8. Whenever a vehicle is furnished by a dealer to a person for the purpose
   of demonstration or testing and the vehicle is not occupied by an employee of
   the dealer, a Temporary Registration Certificate, issued to that person by the
   dealer, shall be affixed to the windshield of the vehicle as provided in §
   505.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 11340 (December 10, 2004); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 9084 (August 22, 2008).
