                                  DC REGULATIONS

REGISTRATION OF DEALERS (§ 18-501)

501.1. A manufacturer or a branch officer of a manufacturer engaged in selling
   new vehicles only may apply to the Director to be registered as a new car
   dealer.

   501.2. A person having an established place of business located within the
   District who is the holder of a franchise for the sale of new vehicles and who
   has a motor vehicle dealer&#8217;s license may apply to the Director to be
   registered as a new car dealer.

   501.3. A person may apply to the Director for registration as a car dealer
   provided, in addition to all other applicable requirements of this Title, that
   person:
   
   
   
   (a)	Has a valid motor vehicle dealer’s business license;
   
   
   
   (b)	Has a valid federal tax identification number;
   
   
   
   (c)	Has a valid certificate of occupancy in the dealer’s name;
   
   
   
   (d)	Is actively engaged in buying, selling, and exchanging vehicles; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Has an established place of business that is located on a street or
   avenue.

   501.4. The requirement that any used car dealer have an established place of
   business located on a street or avenue shall not be applicable to any dealer
   who, on November 1, 1968, was conducting business in a place of business for
   which a valid certificate of occupancy to conduct the business had been
   issued.

   501.5. When trailers, fire-fighting equipment, construction equipment,
   ambulances, or funeral vehicles, including motor vehicles adapted thereof, are
   the only vehicles offered for sale or resale, such manufacturer, branch
   officer of such manufacturer, or person need not hold a valid motor vehicle
   dealer&#8217;s license.

   501.6. A person located in the District of Columbia dealing in motor vehicle
   equipment or services, including but not limited to auto paint shops, auto
   upholstery shops, motor or transmission rebuilders, auto body builders, and
   auto finance companies, may apply to the Director to be registered as a dealer
   in motor vehicle equipment or services.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 11340 (December 10, 2004); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 9084 (August 22, 2008).
