                                  DC REGULATIONS

TITLE REASSIGNMENT FORMS (§ 18-509)

509.1. A new or used car dealer, which is registered under this chapter and in
   good standing, may request the Director to provide it with title reassignment
   forms.

   509.2. Any title reassignment forms issued shall be serially numbered and of a
   quantity to be determined by the Director. The Director may provide a dealer
   with additional reassignment sheets at the Director’s discretion.

   509.3. A dealer may not use title reassignment forms issued to another dealer.

   509.4. The dealer shall complete the first reassignment space of each title
   reassignment form.

   509.5. Except as provided in § 509.5, a dealer may not issue a title
   reassignment form unless all the reassignment spaces on the back of the
   certificate of title or certificate of origin and any accompanying
   reassignment sheets are filled in.

   509.6. A dealer shall use a title reassignment form if the certificate of
   title or certificate of origin were issued in another jurisdiction that does
   not permit an out-of-state dealer to reassign the title.

   509.7. A dealer may not complete a reassignment space on the back of the
   certificate of title or certificate of origin when a title reassignment form
   is attached.

   509.8. The dealer shall verify the vehicle’s identification number, year,
   make, model, the state in which the vehicle was last titled, and the title
   number and record that information on the title reassignment form.

   509.9. The dealer shall verify and completely fill the reassignment block with
   the buyer’s name and address, the seller’s name, the date of reassignment,
   the selling price, the odometer reading, and any applicable lien information.

   509.10. The dealer shall provide the buyer with the original title
   reassignment form.

   509.11. The dealer shall retain a copy of the title reassignment form for no
   less than two (2) years at the dealer’s principal place of business.

   509.12. Within twenty-four (24) hours after the reassignment of ownership, the
   dealer shall transmit electronically a digital certificate of ownership,
   including the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The buyer’s name, address, and driver’s license, learner’s permit,
   or identification card number;
   
   
   
   (b)	The state where the buyer’s license, permit or identification card was
   issued;
   
   
   
   (c)	The vehicle’s identification number; odometer reading; and purchase
   price; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The date of sale or reassignment.

   509.13. If a buyer fails to take possession of the vehicle or if an error is
   made during the reassignment process, the dealer shall write VOID across the
   applicable reassignment space, include a notarized letter stating the
   correction, and use the next available reassignment space. The notarized
   letter shall be part of the original reassignment form.

   509.14. If a title reassignment form is either lost or stolen, the dealer must
   provide a copy of the full police report or six-digit report number to the
   Director within 5 business days of the theft or loss.

   509.15. The Director may issue no more than two replacement title reassignment
   forms to the same dealer within a six-month period.

   509.16. If a title reassignment form is damaged, the dealer shall return all
   parts of the reassignment form to the Director within 5 business days.

   509.17. The dealer shall provide to the Director the dealer copy of the
   reassignment form upon the verbal or written request by the Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 1576 (Feb 16, 2007).
