                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES (§ 17-7607)

7607.1. Beginning with the renewal period of 2007, the Board shall only grant
   CEUs for continuing education programs and activities administered or approved
   by organizations listed in § 7607.8 of this chapter.

   7607.2. For the renewal period of 2007 only, the Board may accept CEUs for
   education programs and activities that were not administered or approved by an
   organization listed in § 7607.8 of this chapter if:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Board determines that the CEUs were sufficiently related to the
   practice of respiratory therapy;
   
   
   
   (b)	The program or activity was approved by a recognized approving body; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The CEUs were obtained prior to the enactment of these regulations.

   7607.3. The Board may approve a seminar, workshop, or an educational program
   given at a conference for approved CEU credit, if the seminar, workshop, or
   program is administered or approved by one of the organizations listed in §
   7607.8 of this chapter.

   7607.4. The Board may approve CEU credit for an applicant who serves as an
   instructor or speaker at a seminar, workshop, or program that is approved by
   one of the organizations listed in § 7607.8 of this chapter for both
   preparation and presentation time, subject to the following restrictions:
   
   
   
   (a)	The maximum number of approved CEUs that may be granted for preparation
   time is twice the number of hours spent preparing for the presentation;
   
   
   
   (b)	The maximum number of approved CEUs that may be granted pursuant to this
   subsection is fifty percent (50%) of an applicant&#8217;s CEU requirement;
   
   
   
   (c)	If an applicant has previously received a credit in connection with a
   particular presentation, the Board shall not grant credit for a subsequent
   presentation unless it involves either a different subject or substantial
   additional research concerning the same subject; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The presentation shall have been presented during the period for which
   credit is claimed.

   7607.5. The Board may approve the following independent home studies and
   distance learning continuing education activities:
   
   
   
   (a)	Publication of an article in a professional journal, publication of a book
   or a chapter in a book, or publication of a book review in a professional
   journal or bulletin provided that the article, book or chapter was published
   during the period for which credit is claimed; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Internet courses, video courses, telecourses, videoconferences, and
   teleconferences offered by accredited colleges or universities, or
   pre-approved by the AARC or MD/DC Society.

   7607.6. The Board may grant continuing education credit under § 7607.5.(a)
   only if the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Board that the work
   has been published or accepted for publication during the period for which
   credit is claimed.

   7607.7. No more than eight (8) CEUs may be accepted in any renewal period, or
   for reinstatement or reactivation of a license, for approved independent home
   studies and distance learning continuing education activities.

   7607.8. To qualify for approval by the Board, a continuing respiratory care
   education seminar, workshop, or program shall be administered or approved by:
   
   
   
   (a)	The American Association of Respiratory Care (AARC);
   
   
   
   (b)	The Maryland/District of Columbia Society for Respiratory Care (MD/DC
   Society);
   
   
   
   (c)	A health care facility accredited by the Joint Commission on the
   Accreditation of Health Care Organizations (JCAHCO);
   
   
   
   (d)	A college or university approved by an accrediting body recognized by the
   Council on Postsecondary Accreditation or the Secretary of the United States
   Department of Education; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Any of the following organizations provided that the training is related
   to respiratory care services:
   
   
   
   (1)	American Medical Association under Physician Category I
   
   
   
   (2)	American Thoracic Society
   
   
   
   (3)	American Association of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation
   
   
   
   (4)	American Heart Association
   
   
   
   (5)	American Nurses Association
   
   
   
   (6)	American College of Chest Physicians
   
   
   
   (7)	American Society of Anesthesiologists
   
   
   
   (8)	American Academy of Sleep Medicine
   
   
   
   (9)	The Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME)
   
   
   
   (10)	The American College of Cardiology
   
   
   
   (11)	The American Lung Association
   
   
   
   (12)	The National Society for Cardiopulmonary Technologists

   7607.9. The Board shall not grant CEU credit for basic life support courses or
   training, or for CPR courses or training.

   7607.10. The applicant shall verify that a seminar, workshop, or program is
   approved by the Board pursuant to this section, prior to attending the
   seminar, workshop or program.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7282 (September
   17, 1999); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 2396 (March 31,
   2006).
