                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPERVISED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS (ยง 17-6603)

6603.1. An applicant for a license shall furnish proof satisfactory to the
   Board pursuant to ยง 6603.3 that the applicant obtained counseling experience
   that meets the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	The applicant shall have acquired the experience after having completed
   the requirements of the first graduate degree in counseling or a related area
   but before the date the application was submitted. Experience acquired after
   having completed the requirements of a master&#8217;s degree in counseling or
   related area, but during a postmaster&#8217;s, specialist, or doctoral degree
   program in counseling or a related area is acceptable.
   
   
   
   (b)	The experience shall have consisted of a minimum of three thousand five
   hundred (3,500) hours of professional counseling performed over a period of
   not less than two (2) years and not more than five (5) years under the general
   supervision of a qualified supervisor who shall be a professional counselor,
   psychologist, psychiatrist, or independent clinical social worker who was
   licensed in a jurisdiction of the United States during the supervised period,
   or who would have been qualified for a license as a professional counselor in
   the District of Columbia. The Board may extend the five (5) year limit for
   good cause. All hours worked in a position in which general counseling
   services are offered shall be counted toward the minimum required hours.
   
   
   
   (c)	Two hundred (200) of the required hours must have been under immediate
   supervision by a qualified supervisor as defined in ยง 6603.1(b) and in
   conformance with the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	One hundred (100) hours of the required two hundred (200) hours of
   immediate supervision shall have been completed under a professional counselor
   who was licensed in a jurisdiction of the United States during the supervised
   period or who would have been qualified for a license as a professional
   counselor in the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (2)	One hundred (100) hours of the required two hundred (200) hours of
   immediate supervision shall have been under individual supervision with a
   qualified supervisor; and
   
   
   
   (3)	For every thirty-five (35) hours worked, the applicant shall have been
   under immediate supervision for a minimum of one hour.
   
   
   
   (d)	The applicant&#8217;s performance shall have been rated as at least
   satisfactory by each supervisor.

   6603.2. A student or graduate under supervision shall identify himself or
   herself as such at all times when practicing professional counseling.

   6603.3. An applicant for a license shall demonstrate qualifications required
   by ยง 6603.1 by submitting with the application a signed statement from each
   supervisor who supervised the applicant during the required period of
   experience which sets forth the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The location at which and period of time during which the supervision took
   place;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number of hours of the applicant&#8217;s practice of professional
   counseling;
   
   
   
   (c)	The number of hours of immediate supervision of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (d)	The specific nature of and responsibilities included in the
   applicant&#8217;s practice;
   
   
   
   (e)	A rating of the applicant&#8217;s performance; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The license number and jurisdiction in which the supervisor was licensed
   during the supervised period; if not licensed, the supervisor&#8217;s vita
   demonstrating the supervisor&#8217;s qualifications to be a licensed
   professional counselor in the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 5238 (August 5, 1994).
