                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES (ยง 17-6611)

6611.1. The Board may, in its discretion, approve continuing education
   programs and activities that contribute to the growth of an applicant in
   professional competence in the professional counseling field and which meet
   the other requirements of this section.

   6611.2. The Board may approve the following types of continuing education
   programs, if the program meets the requirements of ยง 6611.4:
   
   
   
   (a)	A graduate course given at an accredited college or university;
   
   
   
   (b)	A seminar or workshop;
   
   
   
   (c)	An educational program given at a conference;
   
   
   
   (d)	In-service training; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Formally organized learning activities including distance learning and
   home study.

   6612.3. Formally organized learning activities including distance learning and
   home study shall be counted at their full hour value. Hours shall be obtained
   from one or a combination of the following board-approved mental health
   related activities:
   
   
   
   (a)	Regionally accredited university graduate level academic courses in a
   behavioral health discipline;
   
   
   
   (b)	Continuing education programs offered by universities or colleges;
   
   
   
   (c)	Workshops, seminars, conferences, or courses in the behavioral health
   field offered by federal, state, or licensed health facilities and licensed
   hospitals;
   
   
   
   (d)	Workshops, seminars conferences, or courses in the behavioral health field
   offered by an individual or organization that has been certified or approved
   by one of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The American Mental Health Counselors Association (AMHCA) including state
   and local affiliates;
   
   
   
   (2)	The International Association of Marriage and Family Counselors and its
   state affiliates;
   
   
   
   (3)	The American Association of Marriage and Family Therapists and its state
   affiliates;
   
   
   
   (4)	The American Association of State Counseling Boards;
   
   
   
   (5)	The American Counseling Association and its state and local affiliates;
   
   
   
   (6)	The American Psychological Association and its state affiliate;
   
   
   
   (7)	The Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification;
   
   
   
   (8)	The Association for Addiction Professionals and its state and local
   affiliates;
   
   
   
   (9)	The National Association of Social Workers;
   
   
   
   (10)	The National Board for Certified Counselors;
   
   
   
   (11)	A national behavioral health organization or certification body;
   
   
   
   (12)	Individuals or organizations that have been approved as continuing
   competency sponsors by the American Association of State Counseling Boards or
   a counseling board in another state;
   
   
   
   (13)	The Association for Play and Art Therapy; and
   
   
   
   (14)	The American School Counselor Association and its state affiliates.

   6611.4. To qualify for approval by the Board, a continuing education program
   shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be current in its subject matter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be developed and taught by qualified individuals; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Meet one of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	Be administered or approved by a recognized professional counseling
   organization, accredited health care facility, or accredited college or
   university; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Be submitted by the program sponsors to the Board for review no less than
   sixty (60) days prior to the date of the presentation and be approved by the
   Board.

   6611.5. The Board may issue and update a list of approved continuing education
   programs.

   6611.6. An applicant shall have the burden of verifying whether a program is
   approved by the Board pursuant to this section prior to attending the program.

   6611.7. The Board may approve the following continuing education activities:
   
   
   
   (a)	Serving as a speaker at a conference, seminar, workshop, or in-service
   training;
   
   
   
   (b)	Publication of an article in a professional journal or publication of a
   book or a chapter in a book or publication of a book review in a professional
   journal or bulletin; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Individualized learning under the immediate supervision of a professional
   counselor, psychologist, psychiatrist, or independent clinical social worker
   licensed in a jurisdiction of the United States.
