                                  DC REGULATIONS

ONE-TIME TRANSITIONAL SERVICES (ยง 29-1913)

1913.1. One-time transitional (OTT) services shall be reimbursed by the
   District of Columbia Medicaid Program for each person with mental retardation
   and developmental disabilities in the Home and Community-based Services Waiver
   for Persons with Developmental Disabilities (Waiver) subject to the
   requirements set forth in this section.

   1913.2. OTT services are non-recurring set-up expenses for persons in the
   Waiver who are transitioning from an institutional or another
   provider-operated living arrangement to a living arrangement in a private
   residence where the participant is directly responsible for their own living
   expenses.

   1913.3. Reimbursement for OTT services may include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Security deposits that are required to obtain a lease for an apartment or
   home;
   
   
   
   (b)	Essential household furnishings and moving expenses required to occupy and
   use an apartment or home, including furniture, window coverings, food
   preparation items, and bed/bath linens;
   
   
   
   (c)	Set-up fees or deposits for utility or service access, including
   telephone, electricity, heating and water;
   
   
   
   (d)	Services necessary for the person&#8217;s health and safety such as pest
   eradication and one-time cleaning prior to occupancy;
   
   
   
   (e)	Moving expenses; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Activities to procure needed resources.

   1913.4. To be reimbursable, OTT service shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be reasonable and necessary as determined by the person&#8217;s Individual
   Habilitation Plan (IHP) or Individual Support Plan (ISP) and Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be clearly identified in the IHP or ISP and Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   (c)	Be unable to be purchased by the person due to the expense;
   
   
   
   (d)	Be necessary to enable the person to function with greater independence;
   and
   
   
   
   (e)	Not be obtainable from other sources.

   1913.5. OTT services shall not include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Monthly rental or mortgage expense;
   
   
   
   (b)	Food;
   
   
   
   (c)	Regular utility charges;
   
   
   
   (d)	Household appliances or items that are intended for purely diversional or
   recreational purposes (e.g. television, cable or satellite installation for
   television programming, stereo or other audio equipment, or computerized
   gaming equipment); or
   
   
   
   (e)	Specialized electric and plumbing systems that are necessary to
   accommodate medical equipment and supplies.

   1913.6. To be approved as an OTT service, the services shall be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Prior authorized by the Department on Disability Services; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Installed in one of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The person&#8217;s own home; or
   
   
   
   (2)	An apartment or other rental property in which the person resides where
   the owner or service provider does not provide and is not compensated for
   furnishings, utensils and other items necessary to operate a household.

   1913.7. Each provider of OTT service shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be a non-profit organization, home health agency, social service agency,
   or other business entity and shall meet the requirements set forth in Chapter
   19 of Title 29 DCMR;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a current District of Columbia Medicaid Provider Agreement that
   authorizes the provider to bill for OTT services under the Waiver; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Comply with all applicable business licensing requirements in the District
   of Columbia or in the jurisdiction where OTT services are provided.

   1913.8. Reimbursement for OTT service shall be limited to a maximum of five
   thousand dollars ($5,000) per person as a one-time non-recurring expense.
   Reimbursement for OTT service shall require written documentation of the
   specific expenditure or purchase for which reimbursement is claimed.

   1913.99. DEFINITIONS
   
   
   
   When used in this section, the following terms and phrases shall have the
   meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) &#8211; That plan as set forth in section
   403 of the Mentally Retarded Citizens Constitutional Rights and Dignity Act of
   1978, effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-137; D.C. Official Code ยง
   7-1304.03).
   
   
   
   Individual Support Plan (ISP) &#8211; The successor to the individual
   habilitation plan (IHP) as defined in the 2001 Plan for Compliance and
   Conclusion of Evans v. Williams.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; An individual with intellectual and developmental disabilities
   who has been determined eligible to receive services under the Home and
   Community-based Services Waiver for Persons with Mental Retardation and
   Developmental Disabilities (Waiver).
   
   
   
   Plan of Care &#8211; A written service plan that meets the requirements set
   forth in section 1904.4 of Title 29 DCMR, is signed by the person receiving
   services, and is used to prior authorize Waiver services.
   
   
   
   Waiver &#8211; The Home and Community-based Waiver for Persons with Mental
   Retardation and Developmental Disabilities as approved by the Council of the
   District of Columbia (Council) and the U.S. Department of Health and Human
   Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), as may be further
   amended and approved by the Council and CMS.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 2290 (March 7, 2008).
