                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPEECH, HEARING, AND LANGUAGE SERVICES (§ 29-1932)

1932.1. The purpose of this section is to establish standards governing
   Medicaid eligibility for speech, hearing, and language services for persons
   enrolled in the Home and Community-Based Services Waiver for Individuals with
   Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (Waiver) and to establish
   conditions of participation for providers of speech, hearing, and language
   services.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Speech, hearing, and language services are therapeutic interventions to
   address communicative and speech disorders to maximize a person’s expressive
   and receptive communication skills.   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To qualify for Medicaid reimbursement, speech, hearing, and language services
   shall be:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Ordered by a physician, if the person has a medically-related condition such
   as a history of aspiration, swallowing problems, tube feeding, or a
   tracheotomy;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Recommended by the Support Team, if the person has a non-medical condition
   such as a receptive or expressive speech delay or disorder;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Delivered to person that is over the age of twenty-one (21);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Reasonable and necessary to treat the person’s medical or non-medical
   communicative disorder; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Included in the person&#8217;s Individual Support Plan (ISP) and Plan of Care.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   In order to be eligible for Medicaid reimbursement, speech, hearing and
   language services shall be used to address the following conditions:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Swallowing and feeding disorders;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Receptive and expressive communication disorders;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Voice impairments; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Articulatory and motor speech disorders.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   In order to be eligible for Medicaid reimbursement, each individual providing
   speech, hearing and language services shall comply with the following service
   delivery requirements:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conduct a comprehensive assessment, which shall include the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A background review and current functional review of communication
   capabilities in different environments;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An environmental review of communication in places of employment, residence,
   and other sites as necessary;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The potential for use of augmentative and alternative speech devices, methods,
   or strategies;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The potential for sign language or other expressive communication methods; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A needs assessment for the use of adaptive eating equipment.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Develop and implement the speech, hearing, and language treatment plan that
   describes treatment strategies, including direct therapy, training of
   caregivers, monitoring requirements and instructions, and anticipated
   outcomes;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Assist persons with voice disorders to develop proper control of vocal and
   respiratory systems for correct voice production, if applicable;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conduct aural rehabilitation by teaching sign language  and lip reading to
   people who have hearing loss, if applicable;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Participate in ISP and Support Team meetings to provide consultative services
   and recommendations specific to the expert content;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Record progress notes on each visit and submit quarterly reports;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Verify that the speech, hearing, and language assessment and treatment plan,
   and daily notes and quarterly reports, are delivered to the person, family or
   other caregiver, physician, and the Department on Disability Services (DDS)
   Service Coordinator prior to the person’s Support Team meeting;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Assess the need for the use of adaptive equipment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Routinely assess (at least annually and more frequently as needed) the
   appropriateness and quality of adaptive equipment to ensure it addresses the
   person’s needs;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conduct periodic examinations to modify treatments, as appropriate, for the
   person receiving services and ensure that the speech pathologist’s or
   audiologist’s recommendations are incorporated into the ISP; when necessary;
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Complete documentation required to obtain or repair adaptive equipment in
   accordance with insurance requirements and Medicare and Medicaid guidelines.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   In order to be eligible for Medicaid reimbursement, each individual providing
   speech, hearing, and language services shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be employed by a home health agency or a Waiver provider;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be a speech pathologist or audiologist in a private practice; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be an assistant working under the direct supervision of a licensed speech
   pathologist or audiologist.

   1932.7. In order to be eligible for Medicaid reimbursement, each individual
   providing speech, hearing, and language services shall also comply with the
   following requirements:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be a speech-language pathologist or audiologist licensed pursuant to the
   District of Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective March
   25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1201 et seq.) and
   implementing rules;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Have a minimum of two (2) years of experience as a licensed speech-language
   pathologist or audiologist;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Have a Certificate of Clinical Competence in the area of Audiology or Speech
   Pathology granted by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Comply with Section 1904 (Provider Qualifications) and 1905 (Provider
   Enrollment Process) of Chapter 19 of Title 29 DCMR.

   1932.8. In order to be eligible for Medicaid reimbursement, a speech
   pathologist assistant or audiologist assistant shall meet the following
   requirements:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be personally supervised by the speech pathologist or audiologist. Personal
   supervision requires the speech pathologist or audiologist to be in the room
   during the performance of the service; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be employed by the speech pathologist or audiologist or by the speech
   pathologist or audiologist’s employer; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    Comply with Section 1906 (Requirements for Direct Support Professionals) of
   Chapter 19 of Title 29 DCMR.

   1932.9. Speech, hearing and language service providers, without regard to
   their employer of record, shall be selected by the person receiving services,
   their guardian, or legal representative and shall be answerable to the person
   receiving services.

   1932.10. Any provider substituting professionals for more than a two (2) week
   period or four (4) visits due to emergency or availability events shall
   request a case conference with the DDS Service Coordinator to evaluate the
   continuation of services.

   1932.11. In order to be eligible for Medicaid reimbursement, the speech
   pathologist or audiologist in a private practice shall meet all of the
   following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Maintain a private office, even if services are always furnished in the
   person&#8217;s home;
   
   
   
   (b)	Meet all state and local licensure laws and rules;
   
   
   
   (c)	Maintain a minimum of one (1) million dollars in liability insurance;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Ensure that speech, hearing, and language services are provided
   consistent with the person&#8217;s ISP and Plan of Care; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Maintain a space that is owned, leased or rented by the private practice
   and is used exclusively for the purpose of operating the private practice.

   1932.12. In order to be eligible for Medicaid reimbursement, services shall
   only be authorized for reimbursement in accordance with the following provider
   requirements:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DDS shall provide a written service authorization before the commencement of
   services;
   
   
   
   
   
   The provider shall conduct an assessment within the first four (4) hours of
   service delivery and develop a speech, hearing, and language treatment plan
   with training goals and techniques that will assist the caregivers;
   
   
   
   
   
   The service name and provider delivering services shall be identified in the
   ISP and Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   
   
   The ISP, Plan of Care, and Summary of Supports and Services shall document the
   amount and frequency of services to be received; and
   
   
   
   
   
   Services shall be provided consistent with the service limitations described
   under Section 1932.16.

   1932.13. In order to be eligible for Medicaid reimbursement, each home health
   agency, Waiver provider, or licensed speech pathologist or audiologist shall
   maintain the following documents for monitoring and audit reviews:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A copy of the speech, hearing, and language assessment and treatment plan;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A copy of the physician&#8217;s orders and other pertinent documentation of
   the person&#8217;s progress;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A copy of the daily progress notes, containing the following information:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Progress in meeting each goal in the ISP;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any unusual health or behavioral events or change in status;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The start and end time of any services received by the person; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any matter requiring follow-up on the part of the service provider or DDS.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A copy of the quarterly reports used to verify the functioning of the
   person’s adaptive equipment; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any other documents required to be maintained under Section 1909 (Records and
   Confidentiality of Information) of Chapter 19 of Title 29 DCMR.

   1932.14. In order to be eligible for Medicaid reimbursement, each provider
   shall comply with Section 1908 (Reporting Requirements) and Section 1911
   (Individual Rights) of Chapter 19 of Title 29 of the DCMR.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If the person enrolled in the Waiver is between the ages of eighteen (18) and
   twenty-one (21) years old, the DDS Service Coordinator shall ensure that Early
   Periodic Screening and Diagnostic Treatment (EPSDT) services under the
   District of Columbia State Plan for Medical Assistance are fully utilized
   before accessing speech, hearing and language services under the Waiver.

   1932.16. Speech, hearing, and language services shall be limited to four (4)
   hours per day and one hundred (100) hours per year.  Requests for additional
   hours may be approved when accompanied by a physician’s order documenting
   the need for additional speech, hearing, and language services or if approved
   by a designated staff member at DDA.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The reimbursement rate for a speech, hearing and language assessment shall be
   sixty-five dollars ($65.00) an hour. The billable unit of service shall be
   fifteen (15) minutes and the reimbursement rate for each billable unit shall
   be $16.25. A provider shall provide at least eight (8) minutes of service in a
   span of fifteen (15) continuous minutes to bill a unit of service.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The reimbursement rate for speech, hearing and language services shall be
   sixty-five dollars ($65.00) per hour. The billable unit of service for speech,
   hearing and language therapy services shall be fifteen (15) minutes and the
   reimbursement rate for each billable unit shall be $16.25. A provider shall
   provide at least eight (8) minutes of service in a span of fifteen (15)
   continuous minutes to bill a unit of service.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 61 DCR 230 (January 10, 2014).
