                                  DC REGULATIONS

LEVEL OF CARE AND FREEDOM OF CHOICE (ยง 29-1903)

1903.1. Social Service Agency or Sole Proprietor Agency applicants shall
   complete an application to participate in the Medicaid Waiver program and
   shall submit to DDS both the application and following organizational
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of ownership and a list of major owners or stockholders
   owning or controlling five (5) percent or more outstanding shares;
   
   
   
   (b)	A list of Board members and their affiliations;
   
   
   
   (c)	A roster of key personnel, with qualifications, resumes, and a copy of
   their position descriptions;
   
   
   
   (d)	A copy of the most recent audited financial statement of the organization;
   
   
   
   (e)	A completed copy of the waiver provider application;
   
   
   
   (f)	A copy of the basic organizational documents of the provider, including an
   organizational chart, and current Articles of Incorporation or partnership
   agreement, if applicable;
   
   
   
   (g)	A copy of the Bylaws or similar documents regarding conduct of the
   provider&#8217;s internal affairs;
   
   
   
   (h)	A copy of the business license and or certificate of good standing;
   
   
   
   (i)	A copy of professional/business liability insurance of at least one (1)
   million dollars;
   
   
   
   (j)	Organizational policies and procedures, such as personnel policies and
   procedures, human rights, incident reporting, behavioral support policies,
   staff training, protection of consumer funds, and others as required by DDS;
   
   
   
   (k)	A continuous quality improvement plan; and
   
   
   
   (l)	Any other documentation deemed necessary to support the approval as a
   provider.

   1903.2. Professional service provider applicants who are in private practice
   as an independent practitioner shall complete an application to participate in
   the Medicaid Waiver program and shall agree to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Maintain a private office, even if services are always furnished in the
   home of the person receiving services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Meet all state and local licensure laws and rules;
   
   
   
   (c)	Maintain at least one (1) million dollars in liability insurance;
   
   
   
   (d)	Ensure that services provided are consistent with the individual
   habilitation plan (IHP) or individual service plan (ISP) and Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   (e)	Ensure that, if services are furnished in a private practice office space,
   that space shall be owned, leased, or rented by the private practice and shall
   be used for the exclusive purpose of operating the private practice; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Personally supervise assistants and aides employed directly by the
   independent practitioner, by the partnership group to which the independent
   practitioner belongs, or by the same private practice that employs the
   independent practitioner. Personal supervision requires the independent
   practitioner to be in the room during the performance of the service.

   1903.3. Home Health Agency or Skilled Nursing Service provider applicants
   shall complete an application to participate in the Medicaid Waiver program
   and shall meet the definitions and licensure requirements to participate as a
   Home Health Agency or Skilled Nursing Service as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Home Health Agency &#8211; Shall have the same meaning as &#8220;home care
   agency&#8221; and shall meet the definitions and licensure requirements as set
   forth in the Health-Care and Community Residence Facility, Hospice and Home
   Care Licensure Act of 1983, effective February 24, 1984 (D.C. Law 5-48; D.C.
   Official Code ยง 44-501 et seq.), and implementing rules; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Skilled Nursing Service &#8211; Health care services that are delivered by
   a registered or practical nurse acting within the scope of their practice and
   shall meet the definitions and licensure requirements as set forth in the
   District of Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective March
   25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code ยง 3-1201 et seq.), and
   implementing rules.

   1903.4. Each service provider under the Waiver for which transportation is
   included in the Waiver service shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ensure that each vehicle used to transport an individual has valid license
   plates;
   
   
   
   (b)	Ensure that each vehicle used to transport an individual has at least the
   minimum level of motor vehicle insurance required by law;
   
   
   
   (c)	Present each vehicle used to transport an individual for inspection by a
   certified inspection station every six months (or as required in the
   jurisdiction where the vehicle is registered) and provide proof that the
   vehicle has passed the inspection by submitting a copy of the Certificate of
   Inspections to DDS upon request;
   
   
   
   (d)	Ensure that each vehicle used to transport an individual is maintained in
   safe, working order,
   
   
   
   (e)	Ensure that each vehicle used to transport an individual meets the needs
   of the individual;
   
   
   
   (f)	Ensure that each vehicle used to transport an individual has seats
   fastened to the body of the vehicle;
   
   
   
   (g)	Ensure that each vehicle used to transport an individual has operational
   seat belts;
   
   
   
   (h)	Ensure that each vehicle used to transport an individual has temperature
   conducive to comfort;
   
   
   
   (i)	Ensure that each vehicle used to transport an individual is certified by
   the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Commission;
   
   
   
   (j)	Ensure that each individual is properly seated when the vehicle is in
   operation;
   
   
   
   (k)	Ensure that each individual is transported to and from each appointment in
   a timely manner;
   
   
   
   (l)	Ensure that each individual is provided with an escort on the vehicle,
   when needed;
   
   
   
   (m)	Ensure that each vehicle used to transport a person with mobility needs is
   adapted to provide safe access and use;
   
   
   
   (n)	Ensure that each person providing services meet the requirements set forth
   in section 1911 of these rules; and
   
   
   
   (o)	Ensure that each person providing services be certified in cardiopulmonary
   resuscitation and First Aid.

   1903.5. MAA shall notify each prospective provider, in writing, of the
   approval or disapproval to become a provider of Waiver services, no later than
   fifteen (15) days of receipt of all required documentation. If additional
   information is requested by MAA, the provider shall have thirty (30) days from
   the date of the request to submit the additional information. If an
   application is disapproved, the notice shall set forth the reason for
   disapproval. Failure to submit all required documentation may result in
   disapproval.

   1903.6. Each provider shall enter into a provider agreement with MAA for the
   provision of Waiver services.

   1903.7. The provider agreement shall specify the services to be provided,
   methods of operation, financial and legal requirements, and identification of
   the population to be served.

   1903.8. Each provider shall be subject to the administrative procedures set
   forth in Chapter 13 of Title 29 DCMR, to the provider certification standards
   established by DDS (currently known as the Basic Assurance Standards
   Authorization process), and to all policies and procedures promulgated by DDS
   that are applicable to providers during the provider&#8217;s participation in
   the Waiver program.

   1903.9. Each provider shall comply with all applicable provisions of District
   and federal law and rules applicable to the Title XIX of the Social Security
   Act, and all District and federal law and rules applicable to the service or
   activity provided pursuant to these rules.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 10207 (November 5, 2004); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 2882 (March 21, 2008).
