                                  DC REGULATIONS

INITIATING, CHANGING, OR TERMINATING ANY APPROVED SERVICES (§ 29-1912)

1912.1. Community support team (CST) services shall be reimbursed by the
   District of Columbia Medicaid Program for each participant in the Home and
   Community-based Services Waiver for Persons with Mental Retardation and
   Developmental Disabilities (Waiver) subject to the requirements set forth in
   this section.

   1912.2. To be eligible for CST services, the following criteria shall be
   identified during each participant&#8217;s Diagnostic Assessment:
   
   
   
   (a)	An ongoing pattern of behavior that includes physical harm to self or
   others and /or behaviors/psychiatric symptoms which have led to
   institutionalization in the past or have a high probability of resulting in
   institutionalization (e.g., self-injurious behavior, physical aggression,
   illegal or inappropriate sexual acts, reckless endangerment, psychiatric
   conditions leading to the denial of self-preservation or extremely poor
   hygiene);
   
   
   
   (b)	An imminent risk of institutionalization; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A need for twenty-four (24) hour supports and crisis planning to support
   health and safety.

   1912.3. CST services shall not include onsite crisis intervention services and
   is not designed to adequately serve people who threaten or attempt suicide or
   homicide or who have a pattern of felony violations involving violence or the
   victimization of others.

   1912.4. CST services are designed to support and encourage the participant in
   his or her decision to reside within the community; decrease the impact of a
   behavioral and/or psychiatric event; assist the participant in developing
   alternative and more effective communication skills, adaptive and coping
   mechanisms; and enable the participant to achieve positive personal outcomes.

   1912.5. CST services provide intensive behavioral and psychiatric supports for
   participants who are at imminent risk of institutionalization. The CST is a
   specialized professional treatment team that consists of a psychologist,
   psychiatrist, licensed independent clinical social worker, advance practice
   registered nurse, licensed professional counselor, registered nurse, and/or
   behavior management specialist, as needed. The most clinically appropriate CST
   member(s) represents the CST in providing direct services to the participant.
   Each CST member shall be involved as needed, but CST member(s) shall spend a
   minimum of one (1) hour weekly meeting with the participant and/or care givers
   at the onset of treatment. Each CST member shall review summary data at least
   weekly with other CST staff who are involved in participant&#8217;s care.
   Written behavioral support strategies shall be reviewed and updated at least
   monthly, based on the participant&#8217;s response to services.

   1912.6. CST services shall include the following services:
   
   
   
   (a)	Medication/Somatic Treatment services, which may be delivered onsite or
   offsite;
   
   
   
   (b)	Crisis/Emergency services, which may be delivered face-to-face or by
   telephone; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) services, which shall be delivered
   onsite.

   1912.7. CST services shall be authorized and provided in accordance with each
   person&#8217;s Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) or Individual Support Plan
   (ISP) and Plan of Care.

   1912.8. The provider shall provide Medication/Somatic Treatment services in
   accordance with the Diagnostic Assessment Report.

   1912.9. Medication/Somatic Treatment services shall be delivered by the
   following professionals:
   
   
   
   (a)	Psychiatrist;
   
   
   
   (b)	Advance Practice Registered Nurse; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Registered Nurse.

   1912.10. Medication/Somatic Treatment services shall be reimbursed at one
   hundred twenty-nine dollars ($129.00) per hour. The billable unit of service
   shall be fifteen (15) minutes at a rate of thirty-three dollars and
   twenty-five cents ($33.25) per billable unit. A provider shall provide at
   least eight (8) minutes of service in a span of fifteen (15) continuous
   minutes to bill a unit of service.

   1912.11. Crisis/Emergency services shall be provided to a participant involved
   in an active mental health crisis and shall consist of an immediate response
   to evaluate and screen the presenting situation, assist in immediate crisis
   stabilization and resolution, and ensure the participant&#8217;s access to
   care at the appropriate level.

   1912.12. Crisis/Emergency services may be delivered in natural settings and
   the Crisis/Emergency provider shall adjust its staffing levels, as needed to
   provide an immediate response. Each Crisis/Emergency provider shall provide
   consultation, locate other services and resources, and provide written and
   oral information to assist the participant in obtaining follow-up services.

   1912.13. Crisis/Emergency services may be provided based on a recommendation
   from DDS but shall not be extended beyond ten (10) hours unless the services
   are included in the Diagnostic Assessment Report.

   1912.14. Crisis Emergency services shall be delivered by the following
   professionals:
   
   
   
   (a)	Psychiatrist;
   
   
   
   (b)	Psychologist;
   
   
   
   (c)	Advanced Practice Registered Nurse;
   
   
   
   (d)	Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker; or
   
   
   
   (e)	A registered nurse, licensed professional counselor, or behavior
   management specialist working under the supervision of any of the
   professionals set forth in sections 1912.14 (a), (b), (c) or (d).

   1912.15. Crisis/Emergency services shall be reimbursed at one hundred
   thirty-four dollars and sixteen cents ($134.16) per hour. The billable unit of
   service shall be fifteen (15) minutes at a rate of thirty-three dollars and
   fifty-four cents ($33.54) per billable unit. A provider shall provide at least
   eight (8) minutes of service in a span of fifteen (15) continuous minutes to
   bill a unit of service.

   1912.16. Eligibility for Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) services is
   established in the Diagnostic Assessment Report and services shall be provided
   in accordance with the report. Service coverage by the ACT Team shall be
   available twenty-four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week. After the
   initial intervention, the ACT Team shall complete a self care-oriented
   Community-based Intervention plan that focuses on:
   
   
   
   (a)	Diffusing the current situation to reduce the likelihood of a recurrence;
   
   
   
   (b)	Coordinating access to mental health services; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Providing support interventions for participants that develop and improve
   the ability of parents, legal guardians or significant others to care for the
   participant in the community.

   1912.17. Services offered by the ACT team shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Mental health-related medication prescription, administration and
   monitoring;
   
   
   
   (b)	Crisis assessment and intervention;
   
   
   
   (c)	Symptom assessment, management, and individual support therapy;
   
   
   
   (d)	Substance abuse treatment for persons with a co-occurring addictive
   disorder;
   
   
   
   (e)	Psychosocial rehabilitation and skill development:
   
   
   
   (f)	Interpersonal social and interpersonal skill training; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Education, support and consultation to participant&#8217;s families and/or
   their support system, which is directed exclusively to the well being and
   benefit of the participant.

   1912.18. ACT services shall be reimbursed at one hundred five dollars and
   ninety-two cents ($105.92) per hour. The billable unit of service shall be
   fifteen (15) minutes at a rate of twenty-six dollars and forty-eight cents
   ($26.48) per billable unit. A provider shall provide at least eight (8)
   minutes of service in a span of fifteen (15) continuous minutes to bill a unit
   of service.

   1912.19. ACT services shall be delivered by the following professionals:
   
   
   
   (a)	Psychiatrist;
   
   
   
   (b)	Registered Nurse: or
   
   
   
   (c)	Addiction Counselor.

   1912.20. Each provider of CST services shall be:
   
   
   
   (a)	A provider of residential habilitation services as defined in Title 29
   DCMR, Chapter 9, Section 946;
   
   
   
   (b)	A home health agency as defined in Title 29 DCMR, Chapter 19 General
   Provisions, Section 1903.3;
   
   
   
   (c)	A provider of supportive living services as defined in Title 29 DCMR,
   Chapter 9, Section 993; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A Freestanding Mental Health Clinic as defined in Title 29 DCMR, Chapter 8

   1912.21. Each provider shall have a current Medicaid Provider Agreement that
   authorizes the provider to bill for CST Services.

   1912.22. Each person providing CST services shall have a minimum of two (2)
   years experience providing professional services to persons with developmental
   disabilities or receive supervision by professional staff that have the
   requisite experience. Psychologists shall provide support clinical leadership
   and provide supports consistent with person-centered practices and positive
   behavioral support practices.

   1912.23. Each person providing CST services shall meet the requirements set
   forth in section 1911 of Chapter 19, Title 29 DCMR.

   1912.99. DEFINITIONS
   
   
   
   When used in this section, the following terms and phrases shall have the
   meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Addiction Counselor &#8211; A person who provides addiction counseling
   services to persons with co-occurring psychiatric and addictive disorders and
   is licensed or certified in accordance with applicable District laws and
   regulations.
   
   
   
   Advanced Practice Registered Nurse &#8211; A person who is licensed to
   practice as a registered nurse pursuant to the District of Columbia Health
   Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99;
   D.C. Official Code § 3-1201 et seq.), and meets the additional licensure
   requirements for practice in a particular area as an advance practice
   registered nurse or nurse-practitioner in accordance with D.C. Official Code
   § 3-1206.08(a) or (c), or is licensed as a registered nurse and meets
   additional national certification standards for practice in a particular area
   as an advance practice registered nurse or nurse-practitioner in the
   jurisdiction where services are provided.
   
   
   
   Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) &#8211; An intensive integrated
   rehabilitative, crisis, treatment and mental health rehabilitative community
   support provided by an interdisciplinary team to children and youth with
   serious emotional disturbance and to adults with serious and persistent mental
   illness.
   
   
   
   Assertive Community Treatment team or ACT Team &#8211; The mobile
   interdisciplinary of qualified practitioners and other staff involved in
   providing ACT to a participant.
   
   
   
   Behavior Management Specialist &#8211; A person who has the training and
   experience in the theory and technique of changing the behavior of individuals
   to enhance their learning of life skills, adaptive behaviors, and to decrease
   maladaptive behaviors and works under the supervision of a licensed
   practitioner.
   
   
   
   Community Support Team Services &#8211; Services set forth in this section
   that is designed as an ongoing, preventive service to improve and maintain
   outcomes in the health, attitude and behavior of the person.
   
   
   
   Crisis/Emergency Services &#8211; Face-to-face or telephone immediate response
   to an emergency situation experienced by a participant that is available
   twenty-four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week.
   
   
   
   Diagnostic Assessment &#8211; Includes (1) indirect assessment techniques such
   as interviews, written record reviews and questionnaires; (2) direct
   assessment techniques such as observation of the person, documentation of the
   frequency, duration and intensity of problem behaviors; and (3) the evaluation
   of the relationship between the environmental and emotional variables and the
   occurrence of problem behaviors.
   
   
   
   Diagnostic Assessment Report &#8211; The report that summarizes the results of
   the Diagnostic Assessment.
   
   
   
   Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) &#8211; That plan as set forth in section
   403 of the Mentally Retarded Citizens Constitutional Rights and Dignity Act of
   1978, effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-137; D.C. Official Code §
   7-1304.03).
   
   
   
   Individual Support Plan (ISP) &#8211; The successor to the individual
   habilitation plan (IHP) as defined in the 2001 Plan for Compliance and
   Conclusion of Evans v. Williams.
   
   
   
   Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker &#8211; A person who is licensed
   as an independent clinical social worker pursuant to the District of Columbia
   Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law
   6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1201.01 et seq.) or licensed as an independent
   clinical social worker in the jurisdiction where the services are being
   provided.
   
   
   
   Licensed Professional Counselor &#8211; A person who is licensed to practice
   professional counseling pursuant to the District of Columbia Health
   Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99;
   D.C. Official Code § 3-1201.01 et seq.) or licensed as a professional
   counselor in the jurisdiction where the services are being provided.
   
   
   
   Medication/Somatic Treatment &#8211; Are medical interventions including:
   physical examinations; prescription, supervision or administration of mental
   health-related medications; monitoring and interpreting results of laboratory
   diagnostic procedures related to mental health-related medications; and
   medical interventions needed for effective mental health treatment provided as
   either an individual or group intervention.
   
   
   
   Person or Participant &#8211; An individual with intellectual and
   developmental disabilities who has been determined eligible to receive
   services under the Home and Community-based Services Waiver for persons with
   Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities (Waiver).
   
   
   
   Plan of Care &#8211; A written service plan that meets the requirements set
   forth in section 1904.4 of Title 29 DCMR, is signed by the person receiving
   services, and is used to prior authorize Waiver services.
   
   
   
   Psychiatrist &#8211; A person who is licensed to practice psychiatry pursuant
   to the District of Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective
   March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1201.01 et seq.) or
   licensed as a psychiatrist in the jurisdiction where the services are being
   provided.
   
   
   
   Psychologist &#8211; A person who is licensed to practice psychology pursuant
   to the District of Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective
   March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1201.01 et seq.) or
   licensed as a psychologist in the jurisdiction where the services are being
   provided.
   
   
   
   Registered Nurse &#8211; A person who is licensed as a registered nurse
   pursuant to the District of Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985,
   effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1201.01 et
   seq.) or licensed as a registered nurse in the jurisdiction where the services
   are being provided.
   
   
   
   Waiver &#8211; The Home and Community-based Services Waiver for persons with
   Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities as approved by the Council
   of the District of Columbia (Council) and the U.S. Department of Health and
   Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), as may be
   further amended and approved by the Council and CMS.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 2290 (March 7, 2008).
