                                  DC REGULATIONS

ART THERAPIES (§ 29-1918)

The purpose of this section is to establish standards governing Medicaid
   eligibility for art therapies services for persons enrolled in the Home and
   Community-Based Services Waiver for Individuals with Intellectual and
   Developmental Disabilities (Waiver) and to establish conditions of
   participation for providers of these services.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	Art therapies services utilize art, dance, drama, and music therapy to
   provide therapeutic supports to help a person with disabilities express and
   understand emotions through artistic expression and the creative process.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	To be eligible for reimbursement, the services shall be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ordered by a physician or a practitioner listed in Section 1918.7;
   
   
   
   (b)	Reasonable and necessary for the treatment of social and emotional
   difficulties related to a number of mental health issues including disability,
   illness, trauma, loss, and physical and cognitive problems; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Included in the person&#8217;s Individual Support Plan (ISP) and Plan of
   Care.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	The types of services eligible for reimbursement shall be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Art therapy;
   
   
   
   (b)	Dance therapy;
   
   
   
   (c)	Drama therapy; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Music therapy.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	Each person providing art therapies services shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conduct an assessment within the first two (2) hours of delivering the
   service;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Develop and implement an individualized art, dance, drama, or music plan for
   the person that is in keeping with their choices, goals and prioritized needs
   that includes the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Treatment strategies including direct therapy, caregiver training, monitoring
   requirements and instructions, and anticipated outcomes; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Identification of specific outcomes for the person.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Deliver the completed plan to the person, family, guardian or other caregiver,
   and the Department on Disability Services (DDS) Service Coordinator prior to
   the Support Team meeting;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Participate in the ISP and Support Team meetings to provide consultative
   services and recommendations specific to the expert content;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provide necessary information to the individual, family, guardian or
   caregivers, and/or team, to assist in planning and implementing  the approved
   ISP and Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Record progress notes on each visit and quarterly reports;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conduct periodic examinations and modify treatments for the person receiving
   services to ensure that the art therapy practitioner’s recommendations are
   incorporated into the ISP, when necessary; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Meet all of the requirements in Section 1906 (Requirements for Direct Support
   Professionals) of Chapter 19 of Title 29 of the DCMR.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	Services shall be provided by a certified practitioner in an independent
   practice or a practitioner employed by a Waiver provider.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     	Art therapies services shall be delivered by the following practitioners:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Art therapists certified to practice art therapy by the American Art Therapy
   Association, Inc. and/or credentialing of the Art Therapy Credentialing Board;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Dance therapists authorized to practice dance therapy pursuant to Chapter 71
   (Dance Therapy) of Title 17 (Business, Occupations, and Professions) of the
   DCMR;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Drama therapists certified by the National Association for Drama Therapy; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Music therapists certified by the Certification Board for Music Therapists,
   which is managed by the American Music Therapy Association.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	Each Waiver provider or certified practitioner in an independent practice
   shall meet the requirements as set forth in Section 1904 (Provider
   Qualifications) and Section 1905 (Provider Enrollment Process) of Chapter 19
   of Title 29 of the DCMR.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Practitioners, without regard to their employer of record, shall be selected
   by the person or his/her authorized representative and shall be answerable to
   the person receiving services.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any Waiver provider substituting practitioners for more than a two (2) week
   period or four (4) visits due to emergency or availability events shall
   request a case conference with the DDS Service Coordinator to evaluate
   continuation of services.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Services shall be authorized for reimbursement in accordance with the
   following provider requirements:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DDS shall provide a written service authorization before the commencement of
   services;
   
   
   
   
   
   The provider shall conduct an assessment and develop an art therapies
   treatment plan with training goals and techniques that will assist the
   caregivers, within the first two (2) hours of service delivery;
   
   
   
   
   
   The service name and provider delivering services shall be  identified in the
   ISP and Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   
   
   The ISP, Plan of Care, and Summary of Supports and Services shall document the
   amount and frequency of services to be received; and
   
   
   
   
   
   Services shall not conflict with the service limitations described under
   Section 1918.15.
   
   
   
   
   
   Each certified practitioner or Waiver provider shall maintain records required
   under Section 1908 (Reporting Requirements) and Section 1909 (Records and
   Confidentiality of Information) of Chapter 19 of Title 29 of the DCMR.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Each certified independent practitioner or Waiver provider shall comply with
   Section 1911 (Individual Rights) under Chapter 19 of Title 29 DCMR.

   1918.15. Any combination of art therapies services shall be limited to a
   maximum of two thousand, two hundred and fifty dollars ($2,250.00) per person,
   per ISP year and delivered in accordance with the person&#8217;s ISP and Plan
   of Care.

   1918.16. The reimbursement rate for art therapies services shall be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Forty-five dollars ($45.00) per hour for art therapy;
   
   
   
   (b)	Forty-five dollars ($45.00) per hour for dance therapy;
   
   
   
   (c)	Forty-five dollars ($45.00) per hour for drama therapy; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Forty-five dollars ($45.00) per hour for music therapy.

   1918.17. The billable unit of service for art therapies services shall be
   fifteen (15) minutes. A provider shall provide at least eight (8) minutes of
   service in a span of fifteen (15) continuous minutes to bill a unit of
   service.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 2906 (March 21, 2008); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16830 (December 13, 2013).
