                                  DC REGULATIONS

DAY HABILITATION SERVICES (§ 29-1920)

1920.1. The purpose of this section is to establish standards governing
   Medicaid eligibility for day habilitation for persons enrolled in the Home and
   Community-Based Services (HCBS) Waiver for Persons with Intellectual and
   Developmental Disabilities (Waiver) and to establish conditions of
   participation for providers of day habilitation services.

   1920.2. Day habilitation services are aimed at developing activities and
   skills acquisition to support or further integrate community opportunities 
   outside of a person’s home, to foster independence, autonomy or career
   exploration and encourage development of a full life in the person’s
   community.

   1920.3. Day habilitation services are intended to be different and separate
   from residential services. These services are delivered in group settings or
   can be provided as day habilitation one-to-one services.

   1920.4. To be eligible for day habilitation services:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The service shall be recommended by the person’s Support Team and included
   in the Individualized Support Plan (ISP) and Plan of Care; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A person shall have a demonstrated personal and/or social adjustment need that
   can be addressed through participation in an individualized habilitation
   program.
   
   
   
   1920.5  		Day habilitation one-to-one services shall consist of:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Intense  behavioral supports that require a behavioral support plan; or
   
   
   
   
   
   Services for a person who has medical needs that require intensive staffing
   and supports.

   1920.6. To be eligible for day habilitation one-to-one services, a person
   shall meet at least one of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Exhibit elopement which places the health, safety, or well-being of the person
   at risk;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Exhibit behavior that poses serious bodily harm to self or others;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Exhibit destructive behavior that poses serious property damage, including
   fire-setting;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Have any other intense behavioral problem that has been deemed to require
   one-to-one supervision;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Exhibit sexually predatory behavior; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Have a medical history of or high risk for, falls with injury, be physically
   fragile or have physical needs that do not require professional nursing but
   require intensive staffing, and have a physician’s order for one-to-one
   staffing support

   1920.7. Day habilitation one-to-one services shall be authorized and approved
   in accordance with DDS/DDA policies and procedures available at
   https://dds.dc.gov/DC/DDS.

   1920.8. Day habilitation services shall be provided pursuant to the following
   service delivery criteria:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The service may be provided in a group setting. However, persons within the
   group may also receive services on an individualized basis;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The services provided in a community-based venue shall  offer skill-building
   activities to  enhance the person’s habilitation needs; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The service shall be provided in the most integrated setting appropriate to
   the needs of the person.

   1920.9. Day habilitation services shall consist of the following activities:
   
   
   
   (a)	Training and skills development that increase participation in community
   activities, enhance community inclusion, and foster greater independence;
   
   
   
   (b)	Activities that allow the person the opportunity to choose and identify
   his or her own areas of interest and preferences;
   
   
   
   (c)	Activities that provide opportunities for socialization and leisure
   activities in the community;
   
   
   
   (d)	Training in the safe and effective use of one or more modes of accessible
   public transportation;
   
   
   
   (e)	Coordination of transportation to enable the person to participate in
   community activities; and
   
   
   
   (f) 	Individualized or group services that enable the person to attain his/her
   maximum functional level based on the ISP and Plan of Care.

   1920.10. Each day habilitation provider shall develop a day habilitation plan
   for each person that corresponds with the person’s ISP and Plan of Care that
   supports the interests, choices, goals and prioritized needs of the person. 
   Activities set forth in the plan shall be functional, chosen by the person,
   correspond with habilitation needs and provide a pattern of life experiences
   common to other persons of similar age and the community-at-large. To develop
   the plan, the provider shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Use observation, conversation, and other interactions, including
   assessments such as a vocational assessment, as necessary, to develop a
   functional analysis of the person&#8217;s capabilities within the first month
   of participation and annually thereafter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Use the functional analysis, the ISP and Plan of Care, and other
   information available to develop a plan with measurable outcomes that develops
   to the extent possible the skills necessary to allow the person to reside and
   work in the community while maintaining the person’s health and safety; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Focus on enabling each person to attain his/her maximum functional level
   by coordinating Waiver services with other services provided by any licensed
   professionals listed in the person’s ISP and Plan of Care.

   1920.11. Each day habilitation provider shall meet the following provider
   qualification and enrollment requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Comply with the requirements described under Section 1904 (Provider
   Qualifications) and Section 1905 (Provider Enrollment Process) of Chapter 19
   of Title 29 DCMR; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Maintain the required staff-to-person ratio, indicated on the
   person&#8217;s ISP and Plan of Care, to a maximum staffing ratio of 1:4.
   
   
   
   1920.12      	Each direct support professional (DSP) providing day
   habilitation services for a provider shall comply with Section 1906
   (Requirements of Direct Support Professionals) of Chapter 19 of Title 29 DCMR.
   
   
   
   1920.13 	        All day habilitation services shall be authorized in
   accordance with the following requirements:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Department on Disability Services shall provide a written service
   authorization before the commencement of services;
   
   
   
   
   
   The day habilitation DSP providing one-to-one services shall be trained in
   physical management techniques, positive behavioral support practices and
   other training required to implement the person’s health care management
   plan and behavioral support plan, as applicable;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The service name and provider entity delivering services shall be identified
   in the ISP and Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   
   
   The ISP, Plan of Care and Summary of Supports and Services shall document the
   amount and frequency of services to be received;
   
   
   
   
   
   Completion of the person’s day habilitation plan;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Approval of the behavioral support plan or the physician’s order for
   one-to-one staffing support for persons receiving day habilitation one-to-one
   services; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   When required by a person’s BSP, accurate completion by the DSP of the
   behavioral data sheets for persons receiving day habilitation one-to-one
   services.

   1920.14. Each provider shall comply with the requirements described under
   Section 1908 (Reporting Requirements) of Chapter 19 of Title 29 DCMR and
   Section 1911 (Individual Rights) of Chapter 19 of Title 29 DCMR.

   1920.15. Each provider shall comply with the requirements described under
   Section 1909 (Records and Confidentiality of Information) of Chapter 19 of
   Title 29 DCMR.

   1920.16. The reimbursement rate for day habilitation services shall be fifteen
   dollars and twenty cents ($15.20) per hour. Services shall be provided for a
   maximum of eight (8) hours per day. The billable unit of service for day
   habilitation services shall be fifteen (15) minutes. A provider shall provide
   at least eight (8) minutes of service in a span of fifteen (15) continuous
   minutes to be able to bill a unit of service. The reimbursement rate for day
   habilitation services shall be three dollars and eighty cents ($3.80) per
   billable unit.

   1920.17. The reimbursement rate for day habilitation one-to-one services shall
   be twenty-seven dollars and eight cents ($27.08). The billable unit of service
   for day habilitation one-to-one services shall be fifteen (15) minutes. A
   provider shall provide at least eight (8) minutes of service in a span of
   fifteen (15) continuous minutes to be able to bill a unit of service. The
   reimbursement rate for day habilitation one-to-one services shall be six
   dollars and seventy seven cents ($6.77) per billable unit.

   1920.18. Day habilitation services and day habilitation one-to-one services
   shall be provided for a maximum of eight (8) hours a day, not to exceed forty
   (40) hours per week and two thousand and eighty hours (2080) hours annually.
   
   
   
   1920.19    	Day habilitation services shall not be provided concurrently with
   supported employment or employment readiness services.

   1920.20. No payment shall be made for care and supervision normally provided
   by the family or natural caregivers, residential provider, or employer.

   1920.21. Provisions shall be made by the day habilitation provider for persons
   who arrive early and depart late.

   1920.22. Time spent in transportation to and from the program shall not be
   included in the total amount of services provided per day.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 15530 (November 8, 2013).
