                                  DC REGULATIONS

INDIVIDUAL SUPPORT PLAN (ISP) (ยง 29-1907)

1907.1. Each provider shall allow appropriate personnel of MAA, MRDDA and
   other authorized agents of the District of Columbia government and the federal
   government full access to all records during announced and unannounced audits
   and reviews.

   1907.2. Each provider shall maintain all records, including but not limited to
   progress reports, financial records, medical records, treatment records, and
   any other documentation relating to costs, payments received and made, and
   services provided, for six years or until all audits, investigations or
   reviews are completed, whichever is longer.

   1907.3. Each client&#8217;s record shall include, but not be limited to, the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	General information including each client&#8217;s name, Medicaid
   identification number, address, telephone number, age, sex, name, and
   telephone number of emergency contact person, physician&#8217;s name, address
   and telephone number and case manager&#8217;s name and telephone number;
   
   
   
   (b)	A copy of the beneficiary freedom of choice form;
   
   
   
   (c)	A copy of the current IHP or ISP;
   
   
   
   (d)	A record of all services(s) provided, including description and dates of
   service;
   
   
   
   (e)	A record of all prior authorizations for services;
   
   
   
   (f)	A record of all requests for change in services;
   
   
   
   (g)	A record of the client&#8217;s initial and annual health history;
   
   
   
   (h)	A discharge summary, if applicable; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Any other records necessary to demonstrate compliance with all rules and
   requirements, guidelines and standards for the implementation and
   administration of this Waiver.

   1907.4. Each provider shall secure client treatment records in a locked room
   or file cabinet and limit access only to authorized employees.

   1907.5. The disclosure of treatment information by a provider shall be subject
   to all provisions of applicable federal and District laws and rules, for the
   purpose of confidentiality of information.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 10207 (November 5, 2004).
