                                  DC REGULATIONS

VOTER ROLL MAINTENANCE PROGRAM (§ 3-519)

519.1. The Board may utilize information obtained from the United States
   Postal Service, the National Change of Address System (NCOA), and the DMV,
   which identifies registrants who have moved from the addresses listed on the
   Board’s records.

   519.2. As part of its systematic voter roll maintenance program, the Board may
   develop additional procedures to identify and remove from the voter roll
   registrants who are deceased and no notification was received from the Bureau
   of Vital Statistics, who have moved from the District and no notification was
   received from the registrant or the United States Postal Service, or who
   otherwise no longer meets the qualifications as a duly registered voter.

   519.3. If the Board learns that a registered voter has changed his or her
   residence address and has failed to inform the Board, in writing, of his or
   her current residence address, the registrant shall be mailed a
   non-forwardable notice, to the address listed on the voter roll.

   519.4. The Board may utilize information obtained from returned juror summons
   issued by mail by the District of Columbia Superior Court to identify
   registrants who no longer meet the qualifications as a duly registered voter.

   519.5. In the event that a juror summons is returned to the District of
   Columbia Superior Court by the United States Postal Service as undeliverable,
   or which provides a new address within or outside the District of Columbia,
   the Board shall mail a non-forwardable notice to the address to the voter’s
   registration, as provided in § 518 of this chapter.

   519.6. The Board may use other information provided to the District of
   Columbia Superior Court by the registrant to identify registrants who no
   longer meet the qualifications as a registered voter.

   519.7. The Board’s Executive Director may enter into agreements with other
   Chief State Election Officials for the purpose of verifying information on its
   statewide voter registration list to ensure the accuracy of the District’s
   voter registry.
   
   
   
   SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking published at 57 D.C. Reg. 3267, 3288 (April 16,
   2010).
