                                  DC REGULATIONS

OTHER LOTTERY LICENSES (§ 30-207)

207.1 	In addition to the normal agency license as provided for in this Title,
   the agency may offer different variations of lottery licenses that are listed
   below. Note all licensees must adhere to all laws, rules and regulations of
   the Agency, with the exceptions noted below.
   
   
   
   207.2 	Special Event Licenses
   
   
   
   (a) 	The Agency may license Agents for Special Events located in the District
   of Columbia for the purpose of selling lottery tickets at special events that
   are open to the public. For purposes of this section the term &#8220;Special
   Events&#8221; includes festivals and other special events so designated by the
   Agency.
   
   (b)	Agents licensed to sell lottery tickets at one (1) or more locations may
   apply for permission to sell lottery tickets at special events on a form
   provided by the Agency. A separate license shall be issued for each special
   event indicating the time, place, duration and manner of the sale of lottery
   tickets at that special event.
   
   (c)	License for the sale of tickets at a special event may include more than
   one (1) location at that event.
   
   (d)	Before a license is issued for the sale of lottery tickets at a special
   event, the agent shall submit a plan for approval by the Agency to protect the
   integrity and security of the Agency&#8217;s games, property and records
   during the special event and obtain any other licenses required by the
   District.
   
   (e)	Special events licenses shall be issued only to agents who have obtained
   all other licenses required by the District to operate a lawful establishment
   including licenses required for the special event.

   207.3. Corporate Client License
   
   
   
   (a)	The Executive Director may establish a separate commission schedule for
   agents that are corporate clients whose stores that are located in the
   District of Columbia and are also lottery Agents.
   
   
   
   
   
   207.4  	Player Activated Terminal License
   
   
   
   (a)	Nothing in these rules shall be construed to prohibit an applicant who
   meets the requirements of section 201, “Eligibility Requirements,” 202.
   “Application For Original and Renewal Licenses,” and 203, Evaluation of
   Application for License and Assignment of On-Line Computer Terminal,” of
   these rules from being licensed to sell lottery tickets as a Player Activated
   Terminal (PAT) only licensed agent.
   
   
   
   (b)	An agent who sells lottery tickets as a Player Activated Terminal (PAT)
   only licensed agent shall operate in accordance with subsection 301.1 and
   section 308, “Agent Responsibilities,” of these rules.
   
   
   
   (c) 	Nothing in these rules shall be construed to prohibit an agent operating
   as a Player Activated Terminal (PAT) only agent from selling lottery tickets
   by means of Instant Ticket Vending Machines (ITVM).

   207.5. Remote Location License
   
   
   
   (a)	An agent may be licensed to sell lottery tickets at a remote location that
   may be separate from their actual business and that the remote location
   satisfies the requirements of subsection 201.2 of this Title.
   
   
   
   207.6  	Agent Plus License
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Executive Director may license Agents to also be an Agents Plus. An Agent
   Plus may validate and cash winning lottery tickets above the normal five
   hundred ninety-nine dollars and ninety-nine cents ($599.99) D.C. Lottery Agent
   limit. An Agent Plus may validate and cash winning lottery tickets up to Five
   Thousand Dollars ($5,000.00).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An Agent Plus must refer prizes above Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) to the
   D.C. Lottery Claims Center for validation and claiming of the prize. 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An Agent Plus assumes all responsibilities associated with cashing and
   handling of lottery tickets. The D.C. Lottery and Charitable Games Control
   Board, nor the District of Columbia Government assumes any liability for
   Agent’s being an Agent Plus.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For claims in excess of six hundred ($600.00) or more, an Agent Plus must
   obtain and verify the winner’s Social Security Number (SSN).  It is the
   Agent Plus’ responsibility to verify and confirm the winner’s accurate SSN
   and identification.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All Agent Plus must visually check that each ticket is signed by the ticket
   owner and matches the name on the claim form before cashing the ticket.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An Agent Plus must obtain two (2) valid and current identifications of the
   winner and indicate the types of identification presented from the winner’s
   submitted claim form. The two forms of identification include a primary:
   government issued photo I.D. such as State license (driver, etc.), Military
   identification, Passport, and other government photographic (i.e., work I.D.) 
   And a secondary identification which includes: Social Security Card, Insurance
   Card/Medicaid/Medicare, Major Credit Card and or Government Photographic I.D. 
   One of the I.D.’s presented must include an accurate Social Security Number
   (SSN). The preferred forms of acceptable identification are a valid
   driver&#8217;s license with current address and a Social Security Card.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An Agent Plus must promptly submit claim forms to the Agency weekly.  Failure
   of the Agent Plus to submit claim forms to the Agency may result in loss of
   commission and/or an adjustment to agent’s weekly invoice.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An Agent Plus shall not process any claim in which the winner’s prize
   payment is subject to any tax, child support or any other withholdings subject
   to attachment for funds owed to the District as provided by section 612 of
   this Title.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An Agent Plus will not be paid a cashing fee /commission for tickets directed
   to D.C. Lottery Claim Center.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Agents Plus may pay at least six hundred ($600.00) of the validated claim in
   cash, and may pay the balance with cash, a business check, and/or money order.
    The Agent Plus will make a copy of the check issued to the winner and attach
   it to the claim form.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If an Agent Plus issues the winner a check or money order for the prize and
   the winner seeks to have the Agent Plus cash the check, the Agent Plus shall
   not charge a fee for writing or cashing either a check or money order.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   In the event that an Agent Plus issues a check or money order which is
   dishonored for any reason, the Agent Plus is responsible for any fees and
   penalties assessed for the recovery of all monies due.  If an Agent Plus is a
   Corporation, Limited Liability Company, or Partnership the persons associated
   with the business entity, shall be personally liable to the Agency for all
   fees and penalties.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All information obtained from the winner is confidential, and must be
   carefully safeguarded by an Agent Plus.  An Agent Plus must retain a copy of
   the claim form in a secure location and keep a copy of the claim form for at
   least two (2) months from the date of the claim.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An Agent Plus may receive three percent (3%) for cashing winning on-line
   tickets and four percent (4%) for cashing winning scratch tickets based on a
   properly validated and cashed ticket which meets all the requirements and all
   required paperwork has been timely submitted the Agency.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Agency may impose penalties and fees upon the Agent Plus for failure to
   obtain or safeguard required information.  Additionally, any fees or penalties
   imposed upon the Agency by Federal or D.C. Office of Tax and Revenue or any
   other institution may also be assessed to the Agent if arising out of the
   Agent’s actions or omissions.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Agency may impose service charges, fines and penalties upon the Agent
   Plus, if a payment issued to a winner by the Agent is dishonored for any
   reason, non-negotiable or drawn upon insufficient funds, or if the Agent Plus
   fails to keep accurate financial records.  The service charges, fines and
   penalties assessed by the Agency under this section shall not be less than the
   costs associated with the Agent Plus’ violation of any applicable law or
   regulation.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Although an Agent Plus may be paid commission prior to receipt of associated
   paperwork, the D.C. Lottery has the right to deduct any commission paid if the
   Agent fails to submit required documentation.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An Agent Plus is responsible for having sufficient funds available to pay all
   validated prizes.  The D.C.  Lottery will not advance mid-week reimbursements
   to Agents for validations.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An Agent Plus shall act as a fiduciary to the Agency maintaining a separate
   bank account for the purpose of participating in the Agent Plus Program.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Agent participation as an Agent Plus Program requires that they stay in good
   financial standing and not to incur a non-sufficient-fund (NSF).  If the NSF
   is invalid due to bank error, then a letter from the bank is required.   If
   the NSF is invalid due to other mitigating circumstances then the Executive
   Director of the Agency may grant an exception upon written explanation.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An Agent Plus must make processed claim forms available for submission to the
   D.C. Lottery weekly.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All Agent Plus claim records shall be subject to inspection and audit by the 
   Agency and agrees to permit representatives of the Agency to conduct on-site
   inspections for the proposes conducting audits and inspection of lottery
   equipment, during the agent’s normal hours of operation.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An Agent Plus will be subject to fines, penalties up to license revocation by
   the D.C. Lottery for any failure to comply with all applicable laws,
   regulations, rules and procedures.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Change of ownership voids an Agent Plus License.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any assessment of fines, penalties, or other charges shall be made by the
   Executive Director.  Agent’s participation in Agent Plus program is
   voluntary and at the sole discretion of the D.C. Lottery.  An Agent Plus
   agrees that such participation in the program is subject to periodic review of
   sales and cashing and may be terminated at any time by the D.C. Lottery.  All
   decisions regarding program participation are at the discretion of the
   Agency’s Executive Director; with licensees having the right to appeal.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 8665, 8670 (December 29, 1989);
   as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10824 (November
   19, 2010).
   
   
   
   	HISTORICAL NOTE: Prior to December 29, 1989, the D.C. Lottery and Charitable
   Games Control Board published Final Rulemaking published at 29 DCR 2202 (May
   28, 1982).
