                                  DC REGULATIONS

ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS (§ 30-201)

201.1. Any person, firm, partnership, association, organization, or
   corporation which meets the requirements of this section is eligible for a
   license to sell lottery tickets.

   201.2. To be eligible for a license issued by the Agency, an applicant shall
   do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Operate a lawful establishment in the District of Columbia which is open
   to the public and maintains regular business hours;
   
   
   
   (b)	Demonstrate the ability to serve the economical and efficient operation of
   a lottery through the sale of lottery tickets;
   
   
   
   (c)	Demonstrate financial stability and responsibility;
   
   
   
   (d)	Demonstrate the ability to meet minimum sales standards established by the
   Executive Director;
   
   
   
   (e)	Provide a physically secure and readily accessible location in an area
   where there is a need for an agent;
   
   
   
   (f)	Employ sufficient personnel to accommodate ticket purchasers efficiently.

   201.3. For purposes of this chapter, the term &#8220;establishment&#8221;
   shall include the operation of a business, non-profit enterprise or non-profit
   institution which does not have as it primary or business the sale of lottery
   tickets. The term &#8220;establishment&#8221; shall include the Agency.
   Lottery tickets shall include terminal generated tickets and instant tickets.

   201.4. In determining whether the applicant meets the requirements set forth
   in §201.2(c). the Agency shall consider business performance records,
   business practices, financial resources, record of indebtedness, and other
   factors relating to financial reliability of the applicant. These factors
   shall indicate that the applicant shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Deal responsibly and honestly with the Board, the Agency, and the public;
   
   
   
   (b)	Make all financial settlements and payments promptly; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Remain a viable establishment throughout the license period;

   201.5. An agent may be licensed for additional locations, including kiosks;
   Provided, that a separate license is issued for each location; and Further
   Provided, that each location satisfies the location and security eligibility
   requirements of this chapter.

   201.6. In determining whether the applicant meets the requirements set forth
   in§201.2(d), the Board shall consider the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The location at which the applicant intends to sell lottery tickets;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number of customers who frequent the location;
   
   
   
   (c)	The volume of sales at the location;
   
   
   
   (d)	The days and hours of operation;
   
   
   
   (e)	The availability of convenient parking;
   
   
   
   (f)	The proximity to other agents; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Other relevant marketing factors.

   201.7. Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, no license shall be
   issued to sell lottery tickets at a location prohibited by acts of Congress.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 8665 (December 29, 1989); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7646 (November 5, 1993).
   
   
   
   	HISTORICAL NOTE: Prior to December 29, 1989, the D.C. Lottery and Charitable
   Games Control Board published Final Rulemaking published at 29 DCR 2202 (May
   28, 1982).
