                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY PROCUREMENTS (ยง 30-2410)

2410.1. The Executive Director may approve a procurement on an emergency basis
   which does not otherwise comply with the requirements of this title if the
   procurement is essential to an Agency requirement to deal with an existing
   emergency condition, as defined in ยง 2410.2, except that emergency
   procurements in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) shall be approved
   by the Board in accordance with the provisions of ยง 2100.5.

   2410.2. For purposes of an emergency procurement under this chapter, an
   &#8220;emergency condition&#8221; is a situation (such as a flood, epidemic,
   riot, equipment failure, or other reason set forth in a proclamation issued by
   the Mayor or a written determination by the Executive Director) which creates
   an immediate threat to the public health, welfare, or safety. The existence of
   an emergency condition creates an immediate need for supplies or services
   which cannot be met through normal procurement methods, and the lack of which
   would seriously threaten one (1) or more of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The health or safety of any person;
   
   
   
   (b)	The preservation or protection of property; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The continuation of necessary governmental functions.

   2410.3. The justification for emergency procurement shall not be based solely
   on the internal operations of the Agency. In the absence of an emergency
   condition, an emergency procurement shall not be justified on the basis of any
   of the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	The lack of adequate advance planning for the procurement of required
   supplies or services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Delays in procurement caused by administrative delays, lack of sufficient
   procurement personnel, or improper handling of procurement requests or
   competitive procedures; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Pending expiration of budget authority.

   2410.4. The emergency procurement of supplies or services shall be limited to
   quantities or a time period sufficient to meet the immediate threat and shall
   not be used to meet long-term requirements.

   2410.5. The emergency procurement of services shall be limited to a period of
   not more than one hundred twenty (120) days.

   2410.6. If a long-term requirement for the supplies, services, or other items
   is anticipated, the contracting officer shall initiate a separate
   non-emergency procurement action as soon as possible after the emergency
   procurement is made.

   2410.7. A contract procured on an emergency basis shall not be modified to
   expand the scope or extend the time of the procurement unless a limited number
   of additional supplies, services, or other items are needed to fill an
   on-going emergency requirement until regular procurement action procedures can
   be completed.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6766 (September 22, 1989).
