                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROCUREMENT OF MEDIA TIME AND SPACE (ยง 30-2407)

2407.1. The Director and each contracting officer engaged in the procurement
   of media time and space may make individual purchases of media time and space
   on a sole source basis, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
   section.

   2407.2. When there is only a single source for a particular type of media time
   or space (such as mass transit or display advertising space), the contracting
   officer shall purchase the time or space in accordance with the applicable
   marketing budget and marketing plan.

   2407.3. When there are multiple sources for the purchase of media time or
   space (such as newspapers or broadcast media), the contracting officer shall
   use the following to allocate purchases among available media sources and to
   determine the amount of time or space to be purchased from each source
   selected:
   
   
   
   (a)	The strategic marketing plan developed for the specific media buying
   activity, including demographic and targeting variables, as well as the
   overall goals of the particular media campaign;
   
   
   
   (b)	Marketing surveys, including information obtained from various media
   sources and market analysis sources;
   
   
   
   (c)	Rates available from media sources, including rate variations based on
   factors such as broadcast time, audience demographics and market share, the
   availability of targeted time slots, and other relevant factors;
   
   
   
   (d)	The overall budget for purchase of media time and space; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Results obtained from prior advertising or promotion programs using
   particular media sources, targeting approaches, and other relevant factors
   affecting the effectiveness of media buying.

   2407.4. To the extent that purchases of media time and space from local media
   sources are in the best interests of the Agency, a contracting officer may
   allocate media purchases to local media sources even though the allocations do
   not meet all of the requirements set forth in ยง2407.3.

   2407.5. The contracting officer shall attempt to obtain the best price
   possible from each media source through price negotiation and other
   appropriate methods, such as obtaining rate discounts for package purchases,
   when in the best interests of the Agency.

   2407.6. The contracting officer may use special contracting methods to obtain
   the best possible combination of media exposure and price, including blanket
   purchase agreements and indefinite quantity term contracts.

   2407.7. The Director shall establish a quality control program for media
   purchases to ensure that the allocation of media purchases meet the goals of
   the Agency&#8217;s marketing plan and that media advertisements and promotions
   are placed or broadcast in accordance with the specific contract or purchase
   order.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6765 (September 22, 1989)
