                                  DC REGULATIONS

SINGLE AVAILABLE SOURCE (ยง 30-2402)

2402.1. The contracting officer may award a contract using noncompetitive
   negotiation procedures upon making a determination that there is only one (1)
   available source for the required item.

   2402.2. When determining whether there is only one (1) available source for a
   requirement, the contracting officer shall consider whether there is a
   reasonable basis to conclude that the Agency&#8217;s minimum needs can only be
   satisfied by the supplies or services proposed to be procured, and whether the
   proposed sole source contractor is the only source capable of providing the
   required supplies or services.

   2402.3. If the reason for making a procurement on a ole source basis is based
   on the particular source&#8217;s ownership or control of limited rights in
   data, patent rights, copyrights, or trade secrets applicable to the required
   supplies or services, the written D&#038;F shall clearly demonstrate the need
   for the specific supplies or services and that at least one (1) of the
   following factors applies:
   
   
   
   (a)	The requirements cannot be modified to allow procurement by competitive
   sealed bids or competitive sealed proposals; or
   
   
   
   (b)	It is in the best interests of the Agency to meet the identified
   requirements through procurement of the specific supplies or services, and
   that the proposed contractor is the only source for the specific supply or
   service.

   2402.4. The contracting officer may determine that sole source negotiations
   are justified for the procurement of specific makes and models of technical
   equipment and parts if all of the following requirements are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The specific technical equipment or parts are being procured for
   standardization purposes and that standardization of the equipment or parts is
   in the best interests of the Agency;
   
   
   
   (b)	The equipment or parts will be used to meet a requirement for replacement
   parts or additional units that are compatible with existing Agency equipment;
   
   
   
   (c)	The existing equipment for which the parts or additional units are being
   procured was obtained by the Agency through the use of competitive procurement
   procedures, or was obtained through a separately justified and approved sole
   source procurement; and
   
   
   
   (d)	No identical or compatible equipment or parts are available from any other
   source.

   2402.5. Justification for a sole source procurement shall cover all of the
   supplies or services being procured under a single contract. The justification
   of the sole source procurement of some supplies or services shall not be used
   to avoid competitive procedures for obtaining other supplies or services which
   do not qualify for sole source procurement under the same contract.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6762 (September 22, 1989).
