                                  DC REGULATIONS

DISTINCTION BETWEEN A PROCUREMENT AND A SUBGRANT (§ 1-5001)

5001.1. Procurement means the obtaining by contract of property, supplies, or
   services (including construction) by or for the District through purchase or
   lease, whether the supplier or services are already in existence or must be
   created, developed, demonstrated, or evaluated, and includes the establishment
   of agency needs, solicitation of sources, award of contracts, contract
   financing, contract performance, contract administration, and those technical
   and management functions related to the process of fulfilling agency needs by
   contract.

   5001.2. A grant is financial assistance to an organization to support or
   stimulate the accomplishment of a public purpose as defined by the law that
   authorizes the grant. For purposes of this chapter, a subgrant is the award of
   grant funds by the District to a subrecipient organization to accomplish the
   same public purpose.

   5001.3. In determining whether a procurement or a subgrant is the proper
   mechanism for a District agency to award funds to a private organization or
   another public agency, agencies shall apply the following criteria. If the
   answers to (a) &#8211; (c) are “yes,” then a subgrant is appropriate.
   
   
   
   (a)	Is there a statute that authorizes the District agency to support or
   stimulate the activity of the subgrantee and authorizes the subgrant?
   
   
   
   (b)	Is the principal purpose of the relationship the transfer of money,
   property, services, or anything of value to the subgrantee to accomplish a
   public purpose of support and stimulation authorized by statute, rather than
   an acquisition of goods or services for the direct benefit of the District
   government?
   
   
   
   (c)	Does the applicant, not the District, define the specific services, the
   service levels, and the program approach for carrying out the subgrant?
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 4517-18 (May 21, 1999).
