                                  DC REGULATIONS

CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION (§ 16-1304)

1304.1. Application for a certificate of registrations, under the provisions
   of § 4 of the Act [D.C. Official Code § 44-1703(a) (2001 Ed.)] shall be made
   in accordance with the provisions of this section.

   1304.2. Each application for a certificate of registration shall contain the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address, and headquarters of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (b)	If incorporated, the date and place of incorporation;
   
   
   
   (c)	If the applicant is not an individual, the names and headquarters of the
   applicant&#8217;s principal officers and managers and a copy of the resolution
   authorizing the person or persons making application for the certificate of
   registration on behalf of the applicant to take that action, certified to as a
   true and correct copy by the person having charge of the applicant&#8217;s
   records;
   
   
   
   (d)	A copy of the charter and by-laws of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (e)	The purposes of the solicitation to be made under the authority of the
   certificate of registration applied for, the estimated total of funds proposed
   to be raised by the solicitation, and all the uses or dispositions to be made
   of the funds;
   
   
   
   (f)	The names and addresses of all persons who will have responsibility for
   managing the solicitations, including managerial personnel both within and
   outside the District;
   
   
   
   (g)	The names and addresses of all persons by whom the receipts or proceeds of
   the solicitation may be disbursed;
   
   
   
   (h)	An outline of the method or methods to be used in conducting the
   solicitation;
   
   
   
   (i)	The time when solicitations are to be made, giving the dates on which
   solicitations are to begin and end;
   
   
   
   (j)	The total estimated cost of the solicitation, including all costs of
   administration, promotion, solicitations, collection, and disbursement; and
   
   
   
   (k)	A statement of the estimated cost of the solicitation, expressed as a
   percentage of the estimated total amount expected to be collected.

   1304.3. If professional fundraisers or solicitors will be connected with the
   solicitation to any extent, the following information shall be provided with
   the application:
   
   
   
   (a)	The names and addresses of all professional fund raisers and professional
   solicitors;
   
   
   
   (b)	The amount of wages, fees, commissions, expenses, or emoluments to be paid
   to each professional fund raiser and professional solicitor; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A copy of the contract, if any, made by or on behalf of the applicant with
   each professional fund raiser and professional solicitor.

   1304.4. Each application shall be accompanied by an itemized financial
   statement for the last preceding calendar year or fiscal year, as the records
   of applicant may be kept, of any funds collected in the District of Columbia
   through a charitable solicitation by or on behalf of the applicant. This
   statement shall disclose the amount of money so collected, together with the
   costs of collecting, and the final distribution of the funds collected.

   1304.5. If the applicant completes an application for renewal of registration
   prior to the expiration of a registration period the applicant need not file
   an itemized financial statement under § 1304.4, except upon demand of the
   Director. Nothing in this section shall absolve the applicant from compliance
   with the reporting requirements of § 7 of the Act (D.C. Official Code §
   44-1706 (2001 Ed.)).

   1304.6. Each application shall be accompanied by a full statement of the
   character and extent of the charitable work being done by the applicant in the
   District.

   1304.7. Each application shall be accompanied by a statement to the effect
   that if the certificate of registration is granted, the certificate will not
   be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the District or by the
   Department of the solicitation to be conducted under the authority of the
   certificate.

   1304.8. If the applicant is a non-resident, the applicant shall appoint and
   maintain an attorney-in-fact to act as the applicant&#8217;s agent in the
   District for the service of any notice or process authorized by the Act or
   this chapter.

   1304.9. If the applicant is unable to furnish any of the information required
   by this section, a detailed statement shall be given the Director of the
   reason or reasons why the information cannot be furnished.

   1304.10. The fee for a certificate of registration shall be eighty dollars ($
   80) which shall be paid at the time application is made.
