                                  DC REGULATIONS

SOLICITOR INFORMATION CARDS (§ 16-1306)

1306.1. Each registrant and each applicant for a certificate of registration
   shall make application to the Director for the number of solicitor information
   cards that will be required to conduct the solicitation.

   1306.2. At the request of persons exempt under §§ 4(b), (c), and (d) of the
   Act, the Director shall issue to them identification cards to be distributed
   to each solicitor employed by that exempt person.

   1306.3. Solicitor information cards shall be supplied at cost.

   1306.4. Each solicitor information card shall be serially numbered and shall
   bear following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the solicitor;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number of certificate of registration under the authority of which the
   solicitor solicits contributions;
   
   
   
   (c)	The name of the registrant;
   
   
   
   (d)	The dates within which solicitations may be made;
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement that the card does not constitute an endorsement of the
   solicitation by the District of Columbia, or by any officer or employee of the
   District; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Other information or conditions that the Director may require.

   1306.5. The Director may, in his or her discretion, issue solicitor
   information cards with the names of the solicitors omitted. If the cards are
   issued without names, the names of the solicitors shall subsequently be
   furnished to the Director at the Director&#8217;s request.

   1306.6. The Director may, in connection with any request for solicitor
   information cards, require the registrant to submit a list in triplicate of
   the names and addresses of the persons for whom the cards are being requested,
   and the Director may either prepare or cause to be prepared a solicitor
   information card for each name appearing on the list, or the Director may
   serially number the names of the list and issue like-numbered cards to the
   registrant, for completion in accordance with the requirements of this
   section.

   1306.7. No registrant to whom the Director issues serially numbered cards
   against a serially numbered list of names shall issue any card to any person
   other than the person indicated on the list of names by the same number as
   that appearing on a card.

   1306.8. No registrant issued a completely filled-out solicitor information
   card shall distribute the card to any person other than the person named on
   the card.

   1306.9. No person other than the person whose name appears on the solicitor
   information card shall be issued that card or be authorized to use the card by
   a person whose name does not appear on the card, even if the person is
   employed by a registrant to make solicitations, shall be a violation of this
   chapter.

   1306.10. Each registrant shall be responsible for carrying out and securing
   compliance with the provisions of this section and § 1307. Failure or refusal
   of any registrant or solicitor to comply with the provisions of these sections
   shall be grounds for the suspension or revocation of the certificate of
   registration issued to the registrant.
