                                  DC REGULATIONS

ETHICAL CONDUCT (§ 3-203)

203.1. A member or employee of the Board shall not directly or indirectly give
   any person who is not a member or employee of the Board access to official
   information obtained through or in connection with his or her employment which
   has not been released to the general public or which is not a matter of public
   record.

   203.2. A member or employee of the Board shall not solicit or accept, either
   directly or through the intercession of others, any fee, gift, gratuity,
   favor, loan, entertainment, or other thing of monetary value from any person,
   organization or entity which has done or is doing any of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Has obtained, or is seeking to obtain, contractual or other business or
   
   financial relations with the Board.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conducts operations or activities that are regulated or examined by the
   
   Board; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Has interests that may be favorably affected by the action or inaction of
   
   the member employee in the performance of his or her official duties.

   203.3. The restrictions set forth in § 203.2 of this section shall not apply
   to any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Obvious personal relationships, such as those that exist between an
   employee or member and his or her parents, children, or spouse;
   
   
   
   (b)	The acceptance of food and refreshment of nominal value on infrequent
   occasions in the ordinary course of a luncheon or dinner meeting;
   
   
   
   (c)	The acceptance of loans from financial institutions on customary terms to
   finance the acquisition of a car, home, appliance, or other personal items;
   
   
   
   (d)	The acceptance of unsolicited advertising or promotional materials such as
   pens, pencils, note pads, calendars, and like items of nominal intrinsic
   value; or
   
   
   
   (e)	The acceptance of a voluntary gift of nominal value of a cash donation in
   a nominal amount which is presented on a special occasion such as marriage,
   illness, or retirement.

   203.4. A member or employee of the Board shall not directly or indirectly use
   or allow the use of government property of any kind, including office
   machines, motor vehicles, materials, supplies or funds, for other than
   officially approved activities.

   203.5. Without prior approval of the Board, a member or employee of the Board
   shall not accept any reimbursement for expenses or receive any other
   honorarium or fee for any service, speech, or other activity which is rendered
   as a result of his or her official duties with the Board, whether or not such
   activities were performed during official working hours.

   203.6. Board members and employees shall not engage in any employment which is
   incompatible with the full and proper discharge of their government
   responsibilities.

   203.7. No Board member or employee shall do indirectly (by, through, or with
   other persons) those acts or actions which the Board member or employee are
   prohibited from doing directly under the restrictions set forth in this
   chapter.

   203.8. An employee shall promptly report to his or her immediate supervisor
   any attempt to direct or otherwise unlawfully influence the discharge of that
   employee’s official duties.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 7686
   (August 20, 2010) 	[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 57 DCR 11107, 11109 (November 	26, 2010).
