                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR FILING TAX RETURNS (INCLUDING ELECTRONIC [INTERNET]
FILING) (§ 9-105)

105.1. All returns required under Title 5 of the Act shall be filed on the
   forms and in the manner prescribed by the Deputy Chief Financial Officer.

   105.2. Each return filed shall be signed by the taxpayer, either under oath or
   otherwise, as the Deputy Chief Financial Officer shall prescribe in the form
   of return.

   105.3. The Act requires every individual who is a resident of the District, as
   defined in the Act, to file a return without being called upon to do so,
   whenever one or more of the following criteria apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	Gross income for the taxable year, if single or married and not living
   with spouse, exceeds seven hundred fifty dollars ($ 750) plus the applicable
   zero bracket amount specified in § 4(z) of Title 1 of the Act;
   
   
   
   (b)	Gross income for the taxable year, if married and living with spouse,
   exceeds one thousand five hundred dollars ($ 1,500) plus the applicable zero
   bracket amount specified in § 4(z) of Title 1 of the Act; Provided, that if
   such persons elect to file separate returns, the gross income of each spouse
   exceeds the sum of his or her personal exemptions; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Gross sales or gross receipts from any trade or business (other than an
   unincorporated business subject to tax under Title 8 of the Act) exceeds five
   thousand dollars ($ 5,000), regardless of the amount of the person&#8217;s
   gross income.
   
   
   
   (d)	[Repealed] 30 DCR 1255 (March 18, 1983).

   105.4. If a deduction is claimed for household and dependent care services,
   married persons shall not be required to file a joint District income tax
   return.

   105.5. Married persons who do not file a joint return and who claim the
   deduction pursuant to § 105.4 shall file separate District income tax returns
   on a single form prescribed by the Deputy Chief Financial Officer.

   105.6. In determining whether an individual has maintained a place of abode in
   the District for one hundred eighty-three (183) days, temporary absences from
   a District residence (i.e., vacations, hospitalization, business trips, and
   the like shall be considered as periods of District residency.
   
   
   
   105.7 &#8211; 105.9	[Reserved.]

   105.10. Administration of Electronic [Internet] Filing: Pursuant to D.C.
   Official Code § 47-4402(c), the Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
   may prescribe [by emergency rules, administrative notices, forms and
   instructions, as well as in operational guidance (in the form of Notices and
   Letters)], the procedures and criteria required to be followed by certain
   taxpayers in order to file and pay taxes by electronic funds transfer methods,
   generally, by filing over the Internet directly to the Office of Tax and
   Revenue (OTR).
   
   
   
   (a)	Within OCFO, generally, OTR shall have primary responsibility for
   promulgating regulations and issuing the letters or notices necessary to
   implement the electronic filing of tax returns, as well as, for the
   determination of the taxpayers to which these rules apply.
   
   
   
   (b)	The following items are examples of topics for which rules may be set out
   in the forms listed in paragraph 105.10, e.g., as emergency regulations and
   administrative notices:
   
   
   
   (1)	the acceptable indicia of timely filing and payment;
   
   
   
   (2)	the electronic filing method or methods a particular type of taxpayer may
   or may not use;
   
   
   
   (3)	the type of taxes to which electronic filing and payment requirements
   apply for any given tax year and implementation dates;
   
   
   
   (4)	the dollar amount of tax liability per year which, when exceeded, requires
   or permits electronic funds transfer for payment of tax to OTR. Unless and
   until a legislative rule is promulgated or this section is amended, the OCFO
   shall determine both the dollar amount requiring electronic filing or payment
   and the tax type to which such requirements shall apply;
   
   
   
   (5)	the exceptions, if any, allowable, and the alternative methods of payment
   to be used for any exceptions;
   
   
   
   (6)	any provisions needed to implement the civil and/or criminal penalties to
   be imposed for violations of this section; and
   
   
   
   (7)	any other provisions necessary to ensure the timely implementation of
   electronic filing and electronic funds transfer payments.

   105.11. Electronic Filing Process Regulations shall apply to all taxpayers
   subject to filing any tax return, declaration, or statement as specified in
   the regulations, notices, letters and forms listed in paragraph 105.10;
   Electronic Filing Process Regulations shall also apply to the requisite
   payment requirements under authority granted by D.C. Official Code.
   
   
   
   (a)	These electronic filing process regulations shall apply to:
   
   
   
   (1)	A third party bulk filer who must transmit all payments and tax data
   electronically by the prescribed due date. This can be done by means of the
   Electronic Taxpayer Service Center (eTSC) or through an Automated Clearing
   House (ACH) credit transfer. A third party bulk filer is a person or company
   who collects taxes for another taxpayer for the purpose of filing returns and
   depositing withheld taxes, or who files returns and makes payments for
   multiple taxpayers.
   
   
   
   (2)	Taxpayers located in the District as well as taxpayers located outside the
   District who are required to file District tax returns described in this
   section, or in Section 105.10.
   
   
   
   (3)	Certain taxpayers filing certain tax returns where the payment will exceed
   $ 25,000, and to other taxpayers as required or permitted under D.C. Official
   Code.
   
   
   
   (b)	Taxpayers subject to these regulations will have the option to select
   between/among the methods of filing and payment listed in regulations, notices
   or forms published by OTR, e.g., currently, there is a choice between
   electronic PC-based filing or an ACH interface.
   
   
   
   (c)	A taxpayer that is required to remit payments by electronic funds transfer
   shall initiate the transfer so that the tax due is deposited to the designated
   depository account on or before the date that the tax is due. If a tax due
   date falls on a day other than a business day, the deposit by electronic funds
   transfer is due on the first business day thereafter.
   
   
   
   (d)	A taxpayer that is required to remit payments by electronic funds transfer
   and who is unable to make a timely payment because of system failures within
   the banking system/ACH interface that are beyond the taxpayer&#8217;s control
   will not be subject to penalty and interest for late payment.
   
   
   
   (e)	OTR and the Treasurer will provide one or more methods for taxpayers that
   remit taxes by electronic funds transfer to verify and acknowledge that the
   payments have been received by the OTR. These verification and acknowledgement
   methods will be specified in the regulations, notices, and forms published
   pursuant to paragraph 105.10.
   
   
   
   (f)	If a taxpayer does not make a payment of tax for a particular period, such
   taxpayer shall, on the nearest business day to the date on which the payment
   is discovered, make proper adjustment for such period by calling OTR to
   receive instructions for resolving the discrepancy. If the taxpayer error
   involves an underpayment of tax, interest shall be charged and penalties may
   apply as set out in paragraph 105.13.

   105.12. The following Electronic Filing Acceptance Process shall apply under
   these regulations: on or after the 30th calendar day following the date on
   which this Rule is published in the D.C. Register, OTR shall, by registered,
   certified or other form of mailing selected by OTR, send a letter or notice to
   the taxpayers identified by OTR to be required (by statute or regulations) to
   file and pay electronically, formally advising the taxpayer of his
   responsibilities under the Program.
   
   
   
   (a)	Within 30 calendar days of the date of the OTR letter or notice referenced
   in section 105.12 above, a taxpayer required to participate in the electronic
   filing program will be asked to register for electronic filing and payment of
   certain taxes by logging on to a designated OTR Website to receive a
   &#8220;PIN&#8221; number or other form of customer identification authorizing
   the taxpayer to participate in the program. Currently, a taxpayer who
   registers with OTR will receive a User ID and Password in separate e-mails.
   The User ID and Password allow taxpayers 24-hour access to the OTR Electronic
   Filing System.
   
   
   
   (b)	A taxpayer required to participate in the program shall file its return
   and make its first payment of tax on or before the designated due date
   specified on the tax form, or no later than 60 calendar days following the
   receipt by the taxpayer of the notice.

   105.13. The penalty for non-compliance with the requirements of these
   regulations: any taxpayer identified by OTR as required to participate in the
   electronic filing program pursuant to paragraphs 105.10 and 105.12 above, as
   well as in future operational guidance issued by OTR in Notices published in
   the D.C. Register who fails to enroll, file and make payment under the program
   shall be liable to pay a penalty equal to 10 percent of the amount due as
   shown on the tax return. This penalty shall be in addition to any other
   penalty(ies) and interest that may be assessed for late filing and payment,
   and applies even if payment by some other method is timely made. OTR shall
   have the discretion to waive this penalty for reasonable cause.
   
   
   
   105.14 &#8211; 105.98	[Reserved]

   105.99. DEFINITIONS &#8211; The following definitions apply to this section:
   
   
   
   Electronic Funds Transfer &#8211; means and includes automated clearinghouse
   debit, automated clearinghouse credit, credit card approved for payment by
   OTR, or any other means recognized by OTR for the payment of taxes
   electronically.
   
   
   
   (1)	The taxpayer that makes payments by electronic funds transfer shall be
   responsible for all fees and processing costs related to the funds transfer,
   and
   
   
   
   (2)	OTR shall designate which credit cards may be used to remit tax payments.
   Such transfer shall be subject to all notices published at www.dc.gov under
   &#8220;Taxpayer Services.&#8221;
   
   
   
   (3)	Currently, taxpayers can pay any taxes owed using a Discover/NOVUS,
   MasterCard, VISA, or American Express card by calling 1-800-2PAY-TAX
   [272-9829], and then entering 6000. This service is available 7-days-a-week,
   24-hours-a-day. Taxes will be paid directly with the credit card processing
   vendor, Official Payments Corporation. The Office of Tax and Revenue will
   receive the credit card transaction from the vendor and immediately apply the
   payment to the taxpayer&#8217;s account. Official Payments Corporation will
   charge taxpayers a 2.5% fee for this service. This fee is sent directly to the
   Official Payments Corporation and not to the District government.
   
   
   
   Third Party Bulk Filer &#8211; a person or company who collects taxes for
   another taxpayer for the purpose of filing returns and depositing withheld
   taxes, or who files returns and makes payments for multiple taxpayers.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order 56-1431 effective July 24, 1956, 16 DCR §
   303.1, 304.1, and 304.5(a); as amended by the Third Amendment to the Revenue
   Act of 1975 Act, D.C. Law 1-61, 22 DCR 4283 (February 12, 1976); and by Final
   Rulemaking published at 30 DCR 1255 (March 18, 1983); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 2864 (April 11, 2003).
