                                  DC REGULATIONS

DISCLOSURE OF TAX RETURN INFORMATION (ยง 9-110)

110.1. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer, in his or her discretion, may
   divulge or make known any information contained in, or related to, any report,
   application, license, or return required under the provisions of the Act,
   except the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Information which may be contained in a return relating to the amount of
   income; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Any particular relating to the amount of income or the computation of the
   amount of income.

   110.2. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer may divulge or make known
   information such as the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of an individual or corporation;
   
   
   
   (b)	The names and addresses of corporate officers; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Other information which does not relate to the amount of income or
   particulars relating to the computation of income.

   110.3. Notwithstanding the restrictions placed upon the Deputy Chief Financial
   Officer by this section, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer may furnish a
   complete copy of any income tax return to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any officer of the District having a right to a copy of a tax return in
   his or her official capacity;
   
   
   
   (b)	The U.S. Internal Revenue Service of the Treasury Department of the United
   States; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The proper officer (or authorized representative) of any State imposing an
   income tax, if that State grants substantially similar privileges to the
   Deputy Chief Financial Officer.

   110.4. Persons desiring to inspect applications and related financial
   documents of organizations which have been granted exemption shall direct
   their requests (in writing) to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Office of
   Tax and Revenue.

   110.5. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer shall respond to the reports (in
   writing) not later than fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of receipt of
   the request. Theresponse shall set the time, place and condition(s) for
   inspecting the documents.

   110.6. Reproductions for public use of any documents available for inspection
   pursuant to ยง 110.4 shall be prohibited.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order 56-1431 effective July 24, 1956, 16 DCRR
   ยง 304.7; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 1354, 1356 (March
   8, 1985).
