                                  DC REGULATIONS

ALLOCATION OF NON-BUSINESS INCOME (ยง 9-124)

124.1. Net rents and royalties from real property located in the District
   shall be allocable to the District.

   124.2. Net rents and royalties from tangible personal property shall be
   allocable to the District, as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	To the extent that the property is utilized or located in the District; or
   
   
   
   (b)	In their entirety if the taxpayer&#8217;s commercial domicile is in the
   District and the taxpayer is not taxable in the State in which the property is
   utilized.

   124.3. The extent of utilization of tangible personal property in the District
   shall be determined by multiplying the rents and royalties by a fraction, the
   numerator of which is the number of days of physical location of the property
   in the District during the rental or royalty period in the taxable year and
   the denominator of which is the number of days of physical location of the
   property everywhere during all rental or royalty periods in the taxable year.

   124.4. If the physical location of the property during the rental or royalty
   period is unknown or unascertainable by the taxpayer, the tangible personal
   property is utilized in the State in which the property was located at the
   time the rental or royalty payer obtained possession.

   124.5. Gains and profits and losses from sales or exchanges of real property
   located in the District, including capital assets, shall be allocable to the
   District.

   124.6. Gains and profits and losses from sales or exchanges of tangible
   personal property, including capital assets, by a taxpayer engaged in trade or
   business in the District shall be allocable to the District in the following
   instances:
   
   
   
   (a)	If the property had a situs in the District at the time of the sale; or
   
   
   
   (b)	If the taxpayer&#8217;s commercial domicile is in the District and the
   taxpayer is not taxable in the State in which the property had a situs.

   124.7. Gains and profits and losses from sales or exchanges of intangible
   personal property, including capital assets, are allocable to the District if
   the taxpayer&#8217;s commercial domicile is in the District.

   124.8. Interest and dividends from District sources are allocable to the
   District, except interest and dividends specifically excluded from tax under
   ยง 1 of Title 10 of the Act.

   124.9. Rents and royalties from patents, copyrights, trademarks, service
   marks, secret processes and formulas, goodwill, franchises, and other like
   property are allocable to the District, as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	To the extent that the patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, secret
   process or formula, goodwill, franchise, or other like property is utilized by
   the payer in the District; or
   
   
   
   (b)	To the extent that the patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, secret
   process or formula, goodwill, franchise, or other like property is utilized by
   the payer in a State in which the taxpayer is not taxable and the
   taxpayer&#8217;s commercial domicile is in the District.

   124.10. A patent is utilized in a State to the extent that it is employed in
   production, fabrication, manufacturing, or other processing in the State or to
   the extent a patented product is produced in the State.

   124.11. A copyright is utilized in a State to the extent that printing or
   other publication originates in the State.

   124.12. Income from sales of tangible personal property to the United States
   by corporations and unincorporated businesses is from a District source and is
   allocable to the District unless the entity&#8217;s principal place of
   business is located outside the District, and the property is delivered from
   outside the District for use outside the District.

   124.13. All other non-business income which is derived from sources within the
   District shall be allocable to the District.

   124.14. If income is allocable within and outside the District under this
   section, the expenses, losses, and other deductions arising from production of
   that income shall be similarly allocable.

   124.15. Losses incurred in any transaction entered into for the production of
   non-business income shall be allowed only to the extent that any profits from
   the transaction would be taxable under the Act.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order 56-1431 effective July 24, 1956, 16 DCRR
   ยง 309.5(d); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 30 DCR 1255, 1256
   (March 18, 1983).
