                                  DC REGULATIONS

SALES FACTOR (ยง 9-128)

128.1. The sales factor, except for transportation companies, is a fraction,
   the numerator of which is the total sales of the taxpayer in the District
   during the taxable year; and the denominator of which is the total sales of
   the taxpayer everywhere during the taxable year.

   128.2. The sales factor, in the case of transportation companies, is a
   fraction, the numerator of which is the total revenue units first received by
   the company as originating or connecting traffic at a point within the
   District plus the total revenue units discharged or unloaded by the company at
   a point within the District at the termination of the transportation movement
   or for transfer to a connecting carrier; and the denominator of which is twice
   the total revenue units originated everywhere during the taxable year.

   128.3. One (1) ton of freight shall constitute one (1) revenue unit; and ten
   (10) passengers shall constitute one (1) revenue unit.

   128.4. If a transportation company&#8217;s revenue is predominately from the
   transportation of passengers, the number of passengers loaded and discharged
   may be used in lieu of originating and terminating tonnage.

   128.5. Except for transportation companies, sales other than sales of tangible
   personal property, are in the District if either of the following apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The income-producing activity or service is performed in the District; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The income-producing activity or service is performed both in and outside
   the District and a greater proportion of the income producing activity or
   service is performed in the District than in any other State, based on costs
   of performance.

   128.6. A sale of tangible personal property, including a sale to the United
   States government, shall be in the District, regardless of the point of
   passage of title, f.o.b. point, or other conditions of the sale, if any of the
   following factors apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser within the District;
   
   
   
   (b)	The ultimate destination of the property after all transportation,
   including transportation by the purchaser, has been completed is a point
   within the District; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The property is delivered or shipped from an office, warehouse, store,
   factory, or other place of storage in the District to a destination outside
   the District and the taxpayer is not taxable in the State to which the
   property is delivered or shipped.

   128.7. For the purposes of this section, the word &#8220;sales&#8221; includes
   all receipts deemed to be business income not subject to allocation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order 56-1431 effective July 24, 1956, 16 DCRR
   ยง 309.5(h); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 1354, 1358
   (March 8, 1935).
