                                  DC REGULATIONS

PAYROLL FACTOR (ยง 9-127)

127.1. The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
   compensation paid or accrued by the taxpayer in the District during the
   taxable year, and the denominator or which is the total compensation paid or
   accrued by the taxpayer everywhere during the taxable year, except that
   neither the numerator nor the denominator of the payroll factor shall include
   compensation paid or accrued to employees for personal services rendered in
   the production of non-business income.

   127.2. Compensation paid or accrued other than in cash shall be valued at its
   fair market value as of the date of payment or accrual.

   127.3. In the case of transportation companies, the numerator of the payroll
   factor, in addition to other compensation described in ยง 127.1, shall include
   the portion of the total compensation paid or accrued to employees who are
   employed on vehicles, rolling stock, aircraft, watercraft of all kinds, and
   other equipment used by the taxpayer during the taxable period to transport
   persons and property within and outside the District; determined by applying
   to the total compensation the percentage computed under ยง 126.2 relating to
   the portion of the average value of vehicles, rolling stock, aircraft,
   watercraft of all kinds, and other equipment of transportation companies to be
   included in the numerator of the property factor.

   127.4. If compensation is paid or accrued for services the income from which
   is allocable or apportionable partly under this paragraph and partly under
   another section or paragraph of this chapter, the taxpayer may employ (subject
   to the approval of the Deputy Chief Financial Officer), or the Deputy Chief
   Financial Officer may require the employment of any method which will reflect
   properly the portion to be used in arriving at the payroll factor under this
   section.

   127.5. Compensation shall be paid or accrued in the District if the
   individual&#8217;s service is performed entirely within the District.

   127.6. Compensation shall be paid or accrued in the District if the
   individual&#8217;s service is performed both within and outside the District
   but the service performed outside the District is incidental to the
   individual&#8217;s service within the District.

   127.7. Compensation shall be paid or accrued in the District if some of the
   individual&#8217;s service is performed in the District and either of the
   following is applicable.
   
   
   
   (a)	The base of operations or, if there is no base of operations, the place
   from which the service is directed or controlled is within the District; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The base of operations or the place from which the service is directed or
   controlled is not in the District or in any State in which some part of the
   service is performed, but the individual&#8217;s residence is in the District.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order 56-1431 effective July 24, 1956, 16 DCRR
   ยง 309.5(g).
