                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMBINED REPORTING[COLON] TAXABLE YEAR; PART-YEAR MEMBERS (§ 9-167)

167.1. Taxable year of the combined group. The combined group’s taxable year
   is determined as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	If two (2) or more members of a group file a federal consolidated return,
   the group’s taxable year is the taxable year of the federal consolidated
   group; and
   
   
   
   (b)	In all other cases, the group’s taxable year shall be the taxable year
   of the designated agent.

   167.2. 52 to 53 week tax years.  Where a member files federal income tax
   returns on the basis of an annual period which varies from fifty-two (52) to
   fifty-three (53) weeks, its taxable year shall be treated as beginning with
   the first day of the calendar month beginning nearest to the first day of such
   taxable year or ending with the last day of the calendar month ending nearest
   to the last day of such taxable year.

   167.3. Members with different taxable years. If the taxable year of a combined
   group member differs from the taxable year of the combined group, the
   designated agent shall include that member&#8217;s net income or loss and
   apportionment factors in the combined report by using the pro rata method;
   however the Chief Financial Officer may require use of the interim closing
   method in certain instances.

   167.4. Pro rata method.  Under the pro rata method, the income and
   apportionment data of the member as adjusted to reflect the determination of
   income under District law is assigned to the respective portion of the
   combined group&#8217;s taxable year based on the ratio of months in common
   with the tax year of the combined group.
   
   
   
   (a)	The income and apportionment data from the member&#8217;s recomputed
   taxable years is then combined with the income and apportionment data of the
   taxable year of the combined group, along with the income and apportionment
   data of other members of the combined group for the same period, similarly
   recomputed if necessary.  The combined group&#8217;s taxable income is then
   apportioned to each of the taxable members of the combined group.
   
   
   
   (b)	In the event that the pro rata method requires the determination of income
   and apportionment data of a member whose taxable year has not yet closed, and
   the information cannot be obtained in time for the other members to file an
   accurate return, the income and apportionment data for that period shall be
   estimated based on available information.  If the use of actual income and
   apportionment data results in a material misstatement of income apportioned to
   the District by the combined group, the taxpayer members must file an amended
   return to reflect the change.
   
   
   
   (c)	Material misstatement.  For the purpose of determining whether a
   re-determination of income made with respect to the pro rata method results in
   a material misstatement of income apportioned to the District by the combined
   group, it is presumed that there is such material misstatement where the
   aggregate tax liability of the combined group members that filed returns based
   on a pro rata estimate is found to have understated the aggregate correct
   liability for such members by the greater of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) or
   ten percent (10%) or, where the change in the apportioned group income for any
   one taxpayer member of the group increases or decreases by more than one
   hundred thousand dollars ($100,000).

   167.5. The pro-rata method shall be used in each subsequent taxable year
   unless the interim closing method is required.

   167.6. Part-year members.  If, during a combined group&#8217;s taxable year, a
   member ceases to be a member of the combined group or a new person becomes a
   member, the designated agent shall include that person&#8217;s items
   attributable to the portion of the taxable year that the person was a member
   in the combined report covering the combined group&#8217;s entire taxable
   year.  For the portion of the taxable year when the person was not a member of
   the combined group, the person shall file a separate return or file in the
   combined report of another combined group, as applicable.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 10875, 10892 (September 14,
   2012).
