                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMBINED REPORTING[COLON] DESIGNATED AGENT; LIABILITY (ยง 9-168)

168.1. Designated agent.  In the event that there are two or more taxpayer
   members of a combined group, as a filing convenience, and without changing the
   respective liability of the group taxpayer members, the taxpayer members of a
   combined group shall designate one taxpayer member of the combined group to
   file a single return in the form and manner prescribed by the Chief Financial
   Officer, in lieu of filing their own respective returns.  The designated agent
   shall be the taxpayer member of the combined group that is either the common
   parent, or, where there is no such common parent or the parent is not a
   taxpayer member of the combined group, the taxpayer member of the combined
   group that has the greatest District business activity during the first year
   that the combined report is required to be filed, as measured by the total of
   the District factors, payroll, sales, and property for that year.

   168.2. Duties of designated agent.  The designated agent agrees to act as the
   agent on behalf of the taxpayer members of the combined group for all tax
   matters relating to the combined group, including, but not limited to: making
   estimated tax payments; assessments; requesting extensions of time to file
   returns; amending returns; reporting Internal Revenue Service adjustments to
   returns; renewing or revoking an election such as the worldwide election;
   filing a refund claim; reporting federal changes; accepting of refunds or
   notices; executing waivers and powers of attorney; and providing access to tax
   and other relevant records of all members of the combined group as reasonably
   requested by the Chief Financial Officer.

   168.3. Continuity of agency into future years. Once a taxpayer member of the
   combined group is appointed as the designated agent, it shall remain the
   designated agent of that group for all future tax years.  If the designated
   agent leaves the combined group, is acquired by another combined group, or
   ceases to exist, a new designated agent will be determined under ยง 168.1.

   168.4. Liability.  The designated agent of a combined group consents to act as
   surety with respect to the tax liability of all other taxpayer members,
   including, but not limited to, any interest, additions to tax, and penalties. 
   If for any reason the designated agent is unwilling or unable to perform its
   responsibilities, tax liability may be assessed against the taxpayer members.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 10875, 10893 (September 14,
   2012).
