                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMBINED REPORTING[COLON] WORLDWIDE REPORTING; AND INITIATION AND WITHDRAWAL OF
ELECTION (§ 9-162)

162.1. Worldwide reporting.  The member or members of the combined group
   engaged in a unitary business may elect to determine their apportioned share
   of the aggregate taxable net income or loss derived from the unitary business
   pursuant to a worldwide election under which each member shall take into
   account the income and apportionment factors of all the members, wherever
   located, includible in the combined group.  If the members of a combined group
   do not make this election, each member shall determine its apportioned share
   of such income on a water’s-edge basis.

   162.2. Mechanics for making the worldwide election.  A worldwide election
   shall be made by the designated agent of the combined group.  The election
   shall be made on an election form and shall be attached to an original, timely
   filed return.  The election, to be valid, must indicate, in the manner that
   the Chief Financial Officer requires, that every entity that is a member of
   the combined group has agreed to be bound by such election.  This election
   must include an agreement by each member of the group that such election shall
   apply to any member that subsequently enters the group and an agreement that
   each member continues to be bound by the election in the event that such
   member is subsequently the subject of a reverse acquisition described in
   Treas. Reg. § 1.1502-75(d)(3).

   162.3. Effect of election in subsequent tax years.  A worldwide election shall
   be binding for and applicable to the taxable year for which it is made and for
   the next nine taxable years.  Any person entering the unitary combined group
   after the year of the election shall be deemed to have consented to the
   application of the election and to have waived any objection thereto.  Reverse
   acquisition rules based on the federal rules set forth in Treas. Reg. §
   1.1502-75(d)(3) shall be applied in determining whether a person is bound by a
   worldwide election in fact patterns described in such rules.
   
   
   
    162.4	Change in reporting method.  If either the water’s-edge or worldwide
   method was used to account for the combined group members’ income and
   apportionment data in the preceding tax year and the other method is to be
   used for the combined group’s combined report for the current tax year,
   adjustments to the income and apportionment data of the group members shall be
   made to prevent income and apportionment data from being omitted, or
   duplicated.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 10875, 10887 (September 14,
   2012).
