                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPOINTMENT OF A RECEIVER (ยง 14-6904)

6904.1. The following persons shall be excluded for appointment as a receiver:
   
   
   
   (a)	An employee of a District agency that licenses or provides financial
   payment to the type of housing accommodation being placed in receivership;
   
   
   
   (b)	A person who has a financial interest in any other real property in common
   with the owner of the property being placed in receivership;
   
   
   
   (c)	A parent, child, grandchild, spouse, sibling, first cousin, aunt, or uncle
   of the owner of the property being placed under receivership, whether the
   relationship arises by blood, marriage, or adoption; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A tenant of the property being placed under receivership, whether the
   relationship arises by blood, marriage, or adoption.

   6904.2. The Superior Court may appoint a receiver, ex parte, if the Superior
   Court finds that the affected rental housing accommodation poses an immediate
   danger to the health, safety, or security of the tenants.

   6904.3. A receiver, appointed ex parte, may immediately collect all rents or
   payments for use and occupancy of the affected rental housing accommodation in
   order to alleviate the conditions cited by the Superior Court in the order
   appointing the receiver.

   6904.4. The Superior Court may continue an ex parte appointment if:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Superior Court finds that the petitioner has proven the existence of
   grounds under section 502 of the Act; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The owner, agent, lessor, or manager has failed to submit a sufficient
   plan for abatement of the conditions alleged in the petition.

   6904.5. A petitioner may request the appointment of a substitute receiver upon
   the occurrence of the following events:
   
   
   
   (a)	The receiver dies;
   
   
   
   (b)	The receiver has or develops a disability which impedes his or her ability
   to carry out the receivership;
   
   
   
   (c)	The receiver has or develops a conflict of interest; or
   
   
   
   (d)	The receiver fails to make reasonable progress in carrying out the
   receivership.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 7488, 7497-7498
   (August 2, 2002).
