                                  DC REGULATIONS

RESPONSIBILITIES OF PRIVATE ENTITY (ยง 27-502)

502.1. Before any applicant for employment with a private entity, in either an
   employee or an unsupervised volunteer position, may be offered a position, the
   private entity shall inform the applicant that a criminal background check
   must be conducted on him or her.

   502.2. Prior to requesting a criminal background check, the private entity
   shall provide each applicant, employee, or unsupervised volunteer with a form
   or forms to be utilized for the following purposes:
   
   
   
   (a)	To authorize the Metropolitan Police Department or other entity, as
   appropriate, to conduct the criminal background check and confirm that the
   applicant, employee, or unsupervised volunteer has been informed that the
   private entity is authorized and required to conduct a criminal background
   check;
   
   
   
   (b)	To affirm whether or not the applicant, employee, or unsupervised
   volunteer has been convicted of a crime, has pleaded nolo contendere, is on
   probation before judgment or placement of a case upon a stet docket, or has
   been found not guilty by reason of insanity for any sexual offenses or
   intra-family offenses in the District of Columbia or their equivalent in any
   other state or territory of the United States, or for any of the felony
   offenses described in section 501.1(f) of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (c)	To acknowledge that the applicant, employee, or unsupervised volunteer has
   been notified of his or her right to obtain a copy of the criminal background
   check report and to challenge the accuracy and completeness of the report;
   
   
   
   (d)	To acknowledge that the private entity may choose to deny the applicant
   employment, assignment to, or an unsupervised volunteer position for which a
   criminal background check is required based on the outcome of the criminal
   background check; and
   
   
   
   (e)	To inform the applicant or employee that a false statement on the form or
   forms may subject them to criminal penalties as described in section 506 of
   this chapter.

   502.3. The private entity shall direct the applicant or employee to complete
   the form or forms specified in section 502.2 and notify the applicant or
   employee when and where to report to be fingerprinted.

   502.4. Unless otherwise provided in the contract, private entities shall
   request criminal background checks from the Chief, Metropolitan Police
   Department (or designee), who shall be responsible for conducting criminal
   background checks, including fingerprinting, for private entities.

   502.5. Unless otherwise provided in the contract, private entities shall
   request traffic record checks from the Director, Department of Motor Vehicles
   (or designee), who shall be responsible for conducting traffic record checks
   for private entities.

   502.6. Private entities shall pay for the costs for the criminal background
   checks and traffic record checks required under this chapter and the Act,
   pursuant to the requirements set forth by the Metropolitan Police Department
   and the Department of Motor Vehicles.

   502.7. A private entity may make an offer of appointment to, or assign a
   current employee or applicant to, a compensated position contingent upon
   receipt from the contracting officer of the Contracting Officer&#8217;s
   Technical Representative&#8217;s (COTR) decision after his or her assessment
   of the criminal background or traffic record check.

   502.8. A private entity may not make an offer of appointment to an
   unsupervised volunteer whose position brings him or her into direct contact
   with children until it receives from the contracting officer the COTR&#8217;s
   decision after his or her assessment of the criminal background or traffic
   record check.

   502.9. A private entity shall not employ or permit to serve as an unsupervised
   volunteer an applicant or employee who has been convicted of, has pleaded nolo
   contendere to, or is on probation before judgment or placement of a case on
   the stet docket because of, or has been found not guilty by reason of insanity
   for any sexual offenses involving a minor.

   502.10. Private entities shall conduct periodic criminal background checks as
   specified in the contract for current employees and unsupervised volunteers.

   502.11. An employee or unsupervised volunteer may be subject to administrative
   action including, but not limited to, reassignment or termination at the
   discretion of the COTR after his or her assessment of a criminal background or
   traffic record check.

   502.12. If any application is denied because the COTR determines that the
   applicant presents a present danger to children or youth, the private entity
   shall notify the applicant of such determination and inform the applicant in
   writing that she or he may appeal the denial to the Commission on Human Rights
   within thirty (30) days of the determination.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 3490 (May 1, 2009).
