                                  DC REGULATIONS

ASSESSMENT OF INFORMATION FROM CRIMINAL BACKGROUND AND TRAFFIC RECORDS CHECKS
(ยง 27-503)

503.1. The COTR for the contract shall be solely responsible for assessing the
   information obtained from each criminal background check report to determine
   whether a final offer may be made to each applicant or employee. The COTR
   shall inform the contracting officer of its decision, and the contracting
   officer shall inform the private entity whether an offer may be made to each
   applicant.

   503.2. The COTR for the contract shall be solely responsible for assessing the
   information obtained from each traffic records check to determine whether a
   final offer may be made to each applicant or employee. The COTR shall inform
   the contracting officer of its decision, and the contracting officer shall
   inform the private entity whether an offer may be made to each applicant.

   503.3. The information obtained from the criminal background check shall not
   create a disqualification or presumption against employment or volunteer
   status of the applicant unless the COTR determines that the applicant poses a
   present danger to children or youth. The COTR shall consider the following
   factors to determine whether a final offer may be made to each applicant or
   employee:
   
   
   
   (a)	The specific duties and responsibilities necessarily related to the
   employment sought;
   
   
   
   (b)	The bearing, if any, the criminal offense for which the person was
   previously convicted will have on his or her fitness or ability to perform one
   or more of such duties or responsibilities;
   
   
   
   (c)	The time which has elapsed since the occurrence of the criminal offense;
   
   
   
   (d)	The age of the person at the time of the occurrence of the criminal
   offense;
   
   
   
   (e)	The frequency and seriousness of the criminal offense;
   
   
   
   (f)	Any information produced by the person, or produced on his or her behalf,
   regarding his or her rehabilitation and good conduct since the occurrence of
   the criminal offense; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The public policy that it is beneficial generally for ex-offenders to
   obtain employment.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 3490 (May 1, 2009).
