                                  DC REGULATIONS

THERMOPLASTIC CONTAINERS FOR UNCOMPACTED SOLID WASTE (§ 21-805)

805.1. Only those thermoplastic materials which can withstand normal wear ,
   penetration by insects, corrosive actions of cleaning an sanitizing compounds
   and which shall remain relatively unchanged on long term exposure to solid
   waste and weathering, including temperatures from twenty to one hundred twenty
   degrees Fahrenheit (20° to 120° F.), shall be used in the fabrication of
   thermoplastic solid waste (refuse) containers and covers.

   805.2. Thermoplastic materials as fabricated into solid waste (refuse)
   containers and covers shall not increase in weight by more than one half
   percent (0.50%) when evaluated in accordance with the ASTM test method.

   805.3. Thermoplastic materials used in the fabrication of solid waste
   containers and covers shall be resistant to the normal uses of household
   detergents, chemical sanitizing solutions, and other household chemicals, such
   as (but not limited to) deodorants, insecticides, insect repellents, and
   rodenticides.

   805.4. Thermoplastic materials, as used in the fabrication of containers and
   covers, shall be resistant to ultraviolet degradation for a period of at least
   three (3) years under normal weathering conditions through the use of
   ultraviolet radiation screening ingredients, laminates, or coatings.

   805.5. Thermoplastic solid waste (refuse) containers shall, in general, be
   designed and fabricated to exclude insects, withstand conditions of the use
   environment, and be easily cleanable.

   805.6. The specific requirements set forth in this section shall apply
   together with such additional requirements as may be considered necessary to
   assure compliance with these general requirements.

   805.7. The container shall be of watertight construction, and shall comply
   with the following specific specifications:
   
   
   
   (a)	Rims, other than those of solid construction, shall be designed to
   facilitate cleaning and eliminate insect harborage;
   
   
   
   (b)	An internal angle formed by the intersection of surfaces at one hundred
   thirty-five degrees Fahrenheit (135° F.) or less, shall have a minimum
   continuous and smooth radius of at least one eighth inch (1/8 in.);
   
   
   
   (c)	All external corners and angles of refuse contact surfaces shall be sealed
   as smooth as the surfaces being joined, and shall be of sufficient radii to
   eliminate sharp edge(s) which might be an accident hazard or which might
   interfere with proper drainage;
   
   
   
   (d)	The container shall be so designed that solid waste (refuse) may be easily
   emptied by gravity when the container is inverted;
   
   
   
   (e)	All solid waste (refuse) contact surfaces shall be readily accessible and
   easily cleanable;
   
   
   
   (f)	Handles shall meet the requirements of §§805.13 and 805.14; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The container shall be designed and fabricated to minimize exterior
   gnawing edges for animals. This provision shall not apply to raised
   reinforcing members, decorative features, or lifting devices (handles) that do
   not have a common wall with the container. the Director pursuant to §804.2.

   805.8. The cover shall be designed and fabricated to overlap the container
   opening and to ensure a continuous contact between the cover and the
   container.

   805.9. The cover shall be designed to exclude water, with no holes through the
   cover over the container opening.

   805.10. The cover shall be designed and fabricated to minimize exterior
   gnawing edges for animals. This provision shall not apply to raised
   reinforcing members, decorative features or to lifting devices (handles) that
   do not have a common wall with the cover.

   805.11. The method of attachment shall be of simple design, but shall provide
   for positive attachment of the cover to the container. Disengagement shall
   also be of simple design and shall permit removal of the cover by use of one
   (1) hand after disengagement of the attaching device.

   805.12. Handles or other type of lifting devices which permit the lifting and
   carrying of the container shall be provided on each container.

   805.13. The design, fabrication, and attachment of the lifting devices shall
   be of sufficient strength to support the container when tested in accordance
   with §805.16, without damage to the container, cover, or other component part
   of the container.

   805.14. All lifting devices and their method of attachment shall be easily
   cleanable.

   805.15. Thermoplastic solid waste (refuse) containers, covers, and lifting
   devices shall be of sufficient material and design, and shall be fabricated to
   withstand the following normal use and weather conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Withstand normal cleaning and chemical sanitizing methods including
   sanitization with one hundred eighty degree Fahrenheit (180° F.) water;
   
   
   
   (b)	Resist normal impact at minus twenty degrees Fahrenheit (minus 20° F.)
   without failure (see §805.16 for test method);
   
   
   
   (c)	Withstand full loading without failure or permanent deformation (see
   §805.16 for test method);
   
   
   
   (d)	Withstand normal handling (filling and emptying) without failure or
   permanent deformation (see §805.16 for test method); and
   
   
   
   (e)	Be resistant to stress cracking resulting from exposure to use environment
   and conditions (see §805.17 for test method). the Director pursuant to
   §804.2.

   805.16. The container and covers shall be conditioned to twenty degrees
   Fahrenheit (20° F.) and immediately subjected to the following impacts:
   
   
   
   (a)	The container shall be .loaded with five pounds (5 lbs.) of loosely bagged
   sand, or similar material also conditioned to twenty degrees Fahrenheit (20°
   F.), and then dropped on a bottom corner from a height of four feet (4 ft.).
   There shall be no visible evidence of failure or permanent deformation; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The cover shall be impacted at any location on the cover with a free
   falling two inch (2 in.) metal ball at twelve foot-pounds (12 ft./lb.),
   without failure or permanent deformation; the Director pursuant to §804.2.

   805.17. The container shall, when uniformly loaded at a rate of fifteen pounds
   per cubic foot (15 lbs./ft.3), do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Withstand being lifted by one of the lifting devices (handles) provided on
   the container a total of at least one thousand five hundred (1,500) times at
   intervals of one (1) minute or more without the device or container becoming
   permanently deformed, the devices detached, or the devices or container
   otherwise failing; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Withstand emptying of the container with the device(s) provided on the
   container without the lifting and emptying device(s) or container becoming
   permanently deformed, the devices becoming detached, or the devices or
   container otherwise failing.

   805.18. Containers and covers shall show no evidence of stress cracking when
   tested in the following manner:
   
   
   
   (a)	A one inch by six inch (1 in x 6 in.) specimen from a container selected
   with a weld line, if any, in the center of the six inch (6 in.) dimension has
   been carefully bent into a &#8220;U&#8221; shape and immersed in a one hundred
   fifty milliliter (150 ml.) beaker of Igepal (Igepal C0630 from General
   Dyestuff Corporation) at room temperature for sixteen (16) hours; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A one-half inch by two and one-half inch (1/2 in. x 2 1/2 in.) specimen
   from a cover selected with a weld line, if any, in the center of the two and
   one-half inch (2 1/2 in.) dimension has been carefully bent into a
   &#8220;U&#8221; shape and immersed in a fifty milliliter (50 ml.) beaker of
   Igepal at room temperature for sixteen (16) hours.

   805.19. All approved Thermoplastic Containers distributed, sold, or used for
   the containment of solid waste (refuse) in the District shall contain the
   following printed statement on a pressure sensitive backed label affixed to
   the container in a conspicuous location:
   
   
   
   This container meets all requirements of the applicable D.C. Standard (D.C.
   1-4-TC) issued by the Department of Public Works. by:                    
   (Name of Manufacturer)

   805.20. The display of the statement of approval on a thermoplastic container
   shall be considered to be the manufacturer&#8217;s certification that the
   container conforms to the specifications and testing procedures prescribed in
   this section.

   805.21. Each container shall have marked on it the name and address of the
   principal place of business of the manufacturer or distributor of the
   container, and a code identifying the date and location of the manufacture of
   the container.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 26 DCR 5221 (January 5, 1979),
   incorporating text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 359 (November 3,
   1978); 5T DCRR §§10(a)-(d) (September 21, 1970).
