                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS AND SERVICES (§ 24-2105)

2105.1. No person shall break the doors or locks of, or interfere in any way
   with, the signal boxes of the fire alarm or police patrol system.

   2105.2. No person shall meddle or tamper with any bells, gongs, telephones, or
   other instruments or apparatus connected with or constituting any part of the
   telegraph or telephone service of the District.

   2105.3. No person shall cut, break, injure, remove, or disturb any wire or
   wires connected with or forming a part of the services listed in §2105.1.

   2105.4. No person shall place any billboard, sign, or other article or thing
   in front of or upon any fire alarm, patrol box, or fire hydrant so as to
   obstruct the view or ready access to it.

   2105.5. No person shall fasten, tie, or hitch any horse, mule, or other animal
   to any fire alarm or patrol box, or to any pole or post used for the support
   of that box.

   2105.6. No person shall leave any animal standing, without being tied,
   hitched, or fastened, near enough to any fire alarm or patrol box that injury
   might ensue by the animal rubbing against or coming in contact with the box,
   pole, or post.

   2105.7. No person shall ride or drive any horse, mule, or other animal or
   cart, wagon, or other vehicle against any box, pole, or post upon which a fire
   alarm or police patrol box is supported.

   2105.8. No person shall hang or swing upon the iron rods or pipes attached to
   any signal box; or climb upon, or in any manner tamper with, any fire alarm or
   patrol box within the District.

   2105.9. Each lineman, repairman, or other employee of any telegraph,
   telephone, messenger, signal, or electric lighting company shall wear a
   conspicuously numbered badge indicating the name of the company by which he or
   she is employed while doing the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	While engaged in stringing, repairing, or replacing any overhead wire;
   
   
   
   (b)	While engaged in erecting, restoring, or repairing any pole of the
   company; or
   
   
   
   (c)	While doing other work in connection with poles or wires.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 19, §§1, 2, 3 of the Police Regulations (May 1981).
