                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION PROCEDURES (ยง 24-2103)

2103.1. The Chief of the Metropolitan Police Department is authorized to issue
   press passes to bona fide media representatives of print, electronic or
   online, university or college, television, radio, and newsreel media who
   gather information or pictures for distribution or broadcast to the public as
   news. Media representatives include self-employed or freelance writers /
   journalists who regularly gather news.

   2103.2. Press passes shall be issued in a form approved by the Chief of Police
   or his or her designee and shall be valid for two years. Holders of expired
   press passes shall surrender them upon issuance of new passes. The Chief of
   Police or his or her designee may withhold the issuance of a press pass to any
   person convicted of a felony, a crime of violence as defined in D.C. Official
   Code ยง 23-1331 (4), or a crime of moral turpitude, if such withholding is
   based on a reasonable belief the person would be disruptive or will use the
   press pass for an unlawful purpose. The Chief of Police or his or her designee
   shall inform the applicant in writing of the basis for any denial of a press
   pass. An applicant may appeal the denial of the issuance of a press pass to
   the Chief of Police.

   2103.3. An application for a police press pass shall include a statement that
   the holder of a press pass:
   
   
   
   (a)	assumes all risks incident to the use of the pass;
   
   
   
   (b)	will obey all lawful orders and directions of any member of the
   Metropolitan Police Department; and
   
   
   
   (c)	will comport himself or herself in a manner that does not interfere with,
   hinder, or obstruct any authorized person engaged in preserving the peace,
   maintaining order, and protecting life and property. Nothing in this section
   shall constitute a waiver or release of any claim the holder of a press pass
   may have for harm or injury intentionally or negligently caused to such
   person. Any conflicts or disagreements with such orders or directions shall be
   resolved through consultation with the Metropolitan Police Department&#8217;s
   Director of the Office of Public Information or his or her designee.

   2103.4. A person displaying a valid press pass shall not be arrested or taken
   into custody at the scene of a First Amendment assembly or other news event in
   the absence of probable cause for the arrest. A person displaying a valid
   press pass shall not be arrested merely because he or she is in an area where
   other people have committed criminal acts or are being arrested.

   2103.5. A press pass issued pursuant to this section automatically expires
   upon the holder&#8217;s termination of employment or occupation as a media
   representative. Upon such expiration, the holder shall immediately surrender
   the pass to the Metropolitan Police Department Office of Public Information or
   to his or her employer, who shall forward the press pass to the Office of
   Public Information.

   2103.6. Press passes shall not be transferable.

   2103.7. Pursuant to this section, the Chief of Police, upon a showing of good
   cause, shall have the authority to limit the total number of press passes
   issued to media representatives and organizations for an event.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 6, ยง5(c) of the Police Regulations (May 1981); as amended by
   Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 7086 (June 27, 2008).
