                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (ยง 24-2104)

2104.1. A media representative displaying a press pass is authorized to enter
   designated areas, set aside by members of the Metropolitan Police Department,
   for the purpose of gathering, photographing or reporting news events. The
   holder of a press pass is not required to remain in any such designated area
   and may not be restricted from any area open to the general public or any area
   open to participants in a First Amendment assembly.

   2104.2. The holder of a press pass is authorized to cross a police or fire
   line, unless, in the judgment of a Metropolitan Police Department officer or
   official, to do so would interfere with the management of a police or fire
   scene or would endanger the public safety.

   2104.3. Possession of a press pass does not authorize the holder to enter a
   private building or private property that may be located within a police or
   fire line.

   2104.4. MPD officers shall allow media representatives reasonable access to
   all areas where a First Amendment assembly is occurring. At a minimum,
   officers shall allow media representatives no less access than that enjoyed by
   members of the general public. Unless inconsistent with public safety
   considerations, officers shall allow media representatives access to areas
   closed to the general public in order to assist their ability to report on
   such an event. Officers shall also make reasonable accommodations to allow
   media representatives effectively to use photographic, video, or other
   equipment relating to their reporting of a First Amendment assembly.

   2104.5. The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall accept or honor a
   press pass issued to a media representative by a local, state or federal
   governmental body within or outside the District of Columbia. The holder of
   such a press pass shall enjoy the same rights and privileges as if the pass
   were issued directly by the Chief of Police.

   2104.6. It is the policy of the Metropolitan Police Department that media
   representatives shall have maximum access to First Amendment assemblies,
   fires, crime scenes, weather-related events, accidents and other news events,
   consistent with maintaining public safety and the management of a police or
   fire scene.

   2104.7. The commanding officer at the scene of a First Amendment assembly or
   other news event, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Public
   Information, shall ensure that the policy set forth in subsection 2104.6 and
   the applicable provisions of these regulations are carried out.

   2104.8. Press passes and credentials shall be plainly exposed to view whenever
   the persons to whom they are issued are using them.

   2104.9. The Chief of Police shall appoint an advisory committee composed of
   representatives of the media, universities and colleges, which may make
   recommendations concerning the implementation of these rules.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 7086 (June 27, 2008).
