                                  DC REGULATIONS

CIRCULATION OF PETITIONS AND VALIDITY OF SIGNATURES ON PETITIONS (§ 3-1307)

1307.1. In order to circulate petitions pursuant to this chapter, a person
   shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be at least 18 years of age;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be a citizen of the United States;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not be incarcerated for a crime that is a felony in the District;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not have been found by a court of law to be legally incompetent to vote; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Either be a resident in the District of Columbia or, if not a resident in the
   District of Columbia, have registered as a non-resident petition circulator
   prior to circulating a petition in accordance with Sections §§ 1307.2 and
   1307.3.

   1307.2. Each petition circulator who is not a resident of the District of
   Columbia shall, prior to circulating a petition under this chapter, complete
   and file with the Board a  Non-Resident Petition Circulator Registration Form
   in which he or she:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provides the name of (and office sought by) the candidate or ballot measure in
   support of which he or she will circulate the petition;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provides his or her name, residential address, telephone number,  and email
   address;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Swears or affirms that he or she, while not a resident of the District of
   Columbia, is otherwise eligible to vote in the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Acknowledges that he or she has received from the Board information regarding 
   the rules and regulations governing the applicable petition circulation
   process, and that he or she will adhere to such rules and regulations;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Consents to submit to the Board’s subpoena power and to the jurisdiction of
   the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the enforcement of Board
   subpoenas.

   1307.3. Each non-resident petition circulator shall present proof of residence
   to the Board at the time he or she files the Non-Resident Petition Circulator
   Registration Form.  Valid proof of residence is any official document showing
   the circulator’s name and residence address.  Acceptable forms of proof of
   residence include:
   
   
   
   (a)  	A copy of a current and valid government-issued photo identification;
   
   
   
   (b)  	A copy of a current utility bill, bank statement, government check,
   paycheck;
   
   
   
   (c)  	A copy of a government-issued document; or
   
   
   
   (d)  	A copy of any other official document, including leases or residential
   rental agreements, occupancy statements from homeless shelters, or tuition or
   housing bills from colleges or universities.

   1307.4. A petition shall contain a minimum total of twenty-five (25)
   signatures of duly registered qualified electors of the District of Columbia
   who reside within the Single-Member District from which the candidate seeks
   appointment.

   1307.5. The signature on a petition shall be made by the person whose
   signature it purports to be, and not by any other person.

   1307.6. Registered voters who are unable to sign their names may make their
   marks in the space provided for signature.  These marks shall not be counted
   as valid signatures unless the persons witnessing the marks shall attach to
   the petition affidavits that they explained the contents of the petitions to
   the signatories and witnessed their marks.

   1307.7. A signature shall not be counted as valid in any of the following
   circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	The signer’s voter registration was designated as &#8220;inactive&#8221;
   on the voter roll pursuant to D.C. Official Code § 1-1001.07(j) (2011 Repl.),
   at the time the petition was signed;
   
   
   
   (b)	The signer, according to the Board’s records, is not registered to vote
   at the address listed on the petition at the time the petition was signed;
   
   
   
   (c)	The signer is not a duly registered voter;
   
   
   
   (d)	The signature is not dated;
   
   
   
   (e)	The signer is not duly registered in the Single-Member District from which
   the candidate seeks appointment at the time the petition is signed;
   
   
   
   (f)	The petition does not include the printed or typed address of the signer;
   
   
   
   (g)	The petition does not include the printed or typed name of the signer
   where the signature is not sufficiently legible for identification; or
   
   
   
   (h)	The circulator of the petition sheet did not meet the petition circulator
   requirements set forth in § 1307.1 at the time the petition was signed.

   1307.8. For the purposes of this section, a &#8220;duly registered
   voter&#8221; shall be a registered qualified elector who is registered to vote
   at the address listed on the petition as shown on the Board’s voter
   registration records and whose registration is not designated as inactive on
   the voter roll at the time the petition is signed.

   1307.9. A registered voter may submit a written notarized request to the Board
   to disallow his or her signature from being counted on the petition; Provided,
   that the request is received by the Board prior to the time the petition is
   filed.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 1078, 11004 (March 1, 1996); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 5927 (July 28, 2000); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 5582 (April 12, 2013).
