                                  DC REGULATIONS

SALES OF MOTOR FUEL TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS AND AGENCIES (ยง 9-808)

808.1. Motor fuel sold to a foreign government shall be sold to an individual
   designated as the representative of that government.

   808.2. Diplomats, employees of foreign governments and agencies, and certain
   members of their families who are exempt from payment of motor fuel taxes
   shall be determined by the U.S. Department of State, with the approval of the
   Department.

   808.3. Persons who are exempt under this section shall be issued Form DS-719,
   a green identification card called a &#8220;Gasoline Tax Exemption
   Card,&#8221; and a book of exemption certificates (Form DS 717) for use when
   making tax-exempt purchases.

   808.4. The identification card shall bear the name of the individual entitled
   to purchase motor fuel without payment of the tax, an identification card
   number, and the card holder&#8217;s photograph and signature.

   808.5. In order to make a tax-exempt purchase, the purchaser shall show the
   Form DS-719 identification card to the dealer and give a certificate from the
   book (Form DS-717) to the dealer.

   808.6. The dealer shall submit the certificate(s) to the importer for use in
   establishing the amount of motor fuel exempt from the tax.

   808.7. Vendors shall exercise care to determine that the person making a
   tax-exempt purchase is the same person shown on the identification card by
   comparing the person and his or her signature to the photograph and signature
   on the card.

   808.8. No sales shall be made without payment of the tax to any person who
   does not exhibit an identification card and present a completed exemption
   certificate.

   808.9. If the Department of State severs diplomatic relations with any
   country, the agencies, diplomats, employees, and others from that country will
   no longer be allowed to make tax-exempt purchases. Vendors will be notified
   periodically of any revocations made on this basis.

   808.10. No other identification cards except Form DS-719 shall be valid for
   the motor fuel tax exemption. The pink identification cards issued for the
   purpose of indicating exemption from Federal gasoline tax shall not be valid
   for establishing exemption to D.C. motor fuel tax.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Administrative Ruling No. 1, 16 DCRR.
