                                  DC REGULATIONS

ACTIONS FOR WHICH NO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT SCREENING FORM IS REQUIRED (§
20-7202)

7202.1. No agency shall require that an EISF or an EIS be prepared for the
   following actions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any action that costs less than 1 million dollars ($1,000,000) based on
   1989 dollars adjusted annually according to the Consumer Price Index, unless
   that action meets the criteria of §§ 7201.3 and 7201.4 of these rules;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any action for which an Environmental Impact Statement (&#8220;EIS&#8221;)
   has been prepared in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of
   1969, approved January 1, 1970 (83 Stat.852; 42 U.S.C. § 4321 et seq.) (NEPA)
   and its implementing regulations, or a determination has been made under NEPA
   and its implementing regulations that no impact statement is required due to a
   finding of no significant impact or a finding that the proposed action is
   categorically excluded from consideration;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any action for which a request has been made for the authorization or
   allocation of funding that involves only a feasibility or a planning study for
   a possible future action that has not been approved, adopted or funded. The
   study, however, shall include consideration of environmental factors;
   
   
   
   (d)	Any action whose impact on the environment has been or is considered in
   the functional equivalent of an EIS, where equivalency is determined by the
   lead agency;
   
   
   
   (e)	Any action that reached a critical stage of completion prior to October
   18, 1989, and the cost of altering or abandoning the action for environmental
   reasons outweighs the benefits derived from the action;
   
   
   
   (f)	Any action of an environmentally protective regulatory nature;
   
   
   
   (g)	Any action within the Central Employment Area as defined in the Zoning
   Regulations of the District of Columbia; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Any action for which a lease, permit, certificate, or any other
   entitlement or permission to act by a District government agency has been
   approved before December 31, 1989.

   7202.2. In addition to the actions listed in § 7202.1, no agency shall
   require that an EISF or EIS be prepared for the following classes of actions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Class 1. Operation, repair, maintenance, or minor alteration of existing
   public structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical
   features, including replacement of roofs, HVAC, electrical, plumbing,
   elevator, sprinkler or other systems, plus interior work to common areas and
   individual units, involving negligible or no expansion of use beyond that
   previously existing;
   
   
   
   (b)	Class 2. Replacement, renovation, or reconstruction of existing structures
   and facilities, where the new or renovated structure meets the requirements of
   the Zoning Regulations, is located on the same site as the structure replaced,
   renovated, or reconstructed, will have substantially the same purpose and
   capacity as the structure replaced, renovated, or reconstructed, and will not
   exceed the density of that structure;
   
   
   
   (c)	Class 3. Construction and location of limited numbers of small facilities
   or structures; installation of new equipment in small structures, including
   replacement of HVAC, electrical, plumbing, elevator, sprinkler or other
   systems; and the conversion of existing small structures from one use to
   another where only minor modifications are made in the exterior of the
   structure. This class includes, but is not limited to:
   
   
   
   (1)	Single family residences not in conjunction with the building of two or
   more such units;
   
   
   
   (2)	Small commercial structures not involving the use of significant amounts
   of hazardous substances;
   
   
   
   (3)	Water main, sewage, electrical, and other utility extensions of reasonable
   length to serve such construction; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Accessory structures such as garages, patios, swimming pools, and fences;
   
   
   
   (d)	Class 4. Minor public or private alterations in the condition of land,
   water, or vegetation which do not involve the removal of mature, healthy
   trees. This class includes, but is not limited to:
   
   
   
   (1)	Grading on land with a slope of less than ten percent (10%), except in
   waterways, wetlands, or officially designated scenic areas;
   
   
   
   (2)	New gardening, landscaping or planting of trees or other vegetation;
   
   
   
   (3)	Temporary use of land having negligible permanent effects, such as
   carnivals, fairs, and sales of Christmas trees; and
   
   
   
   (4)	The creation of bicycle lanes on existing rights-of-way;
   
   
   
   (e)	Class 5. Minor alterations in land use limitation in areas with an average
   slope of less than twenty percent (20%), which do not result in any changes in
   land use or density. This class includes, but is not limited to:
   
   
   
   (1)	Minor lot line adjustments, side yard and set back variances; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Issuance of minor encroachment permits;
   
   
   
   (f)	Class 6. Actions taken by District agencies as authorized by law or
   regulation to assure the maintenance, restoration, or enhancement of a natural
   resource or the environment, where the regulatory process involves procedures
   for protection of the environment. This includes basic data collection,
   research, experimental management and resource evaluation activities which do
   not result in a serious or major disturbance to the environment and activities
   limited entirely to inspections to check for performance of an operation, or
   the quality, health or safety of a project;
   
   
   
   (g)	Class 7. Construction or placement of minor structures accessory to
   existing commercial, industrial, or institutional facilities. This class
   includes, but is not limited to:
   
   
   
   (1)	On-premise signs;
   
   
   
   (2)	Small parking lots (fewer than 50 vehicles); and
   
   
   
   (3)	Placement of seasonal or temporary use items such as mobile food units,
   portable restrooms, or similar items in generally the same locations from time
   to time in publicly owned parks, stadiums, or other facilities designed for
   public use;
   
   
   
   (h)	Class 8. Action in the nature of a response to an emergency as determined
   by the Mayor;
   
   
   
   (i)	Class 9. Action in the nature of remedial actions related to leaking
   underground storage tanks, removal of PCB equipment, hazardous substances, or
   other environmental contaminants pursuant to all lawfully required and issued
   permits;
   
   
   
   (j)	Class 10. Actions related to the removal of asbestos pursuant to all
   lawfully required and issued permits;
   
   
   
   (k)	Class 11. Residential structure projects, or portions of projects, within
   the R-1 through R-5-A zoning districts, as defined under Chapters 2 and 3 of
   Title 11, DCMR (Zoning);
   
   
   
   (l)	Class 12. Actions within Development Zones as defined pursuant to the
   District of Columbia Economic Development Zone Incentives Act of 1988 (D.C.
   Official Code § 6-1501, et seq.).

   7202.3. An applicant may submit an existing environmental description and
   analysis of a proposed action to the lead agency, which must make a written
   determination within thirty (30) days of receipt of the document as to whether
   or not (i) the environmental description and analysis qualifies as a
   functional equivalent of an EIS, and (ii) the action is exempt under §
   7202.1.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 2799 (May 9, 1997).
