                                  DC REGULATIONS

DESIGNATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF LEAD AND REVIEW AGENCIES (ยง 20-7203)

7203.1. The lead agency responsible for the coordination of the preparation
   and review of the EISF, and the EIS if necessary, shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	For any major action proposed by an applicant that would require any
   license, permit, certificate of occupancy or other approval from a District
   Agency prior to implementation, the District agency responsible for the first
   District government authorization of the project shall be the lead agency;
   
   
   
   (b)	For any major action proposed by the District government, the agency
   proposing the project shall be the lead agency.

   7203.2. For any public or private major action for which the lead agency is an
   agency other than DCRA, the lead agency shall submit any EISF and EIS to the
   DCRA, as review agency, for review, and shall consider the recommendations of
   DCRA in determining whether to request additional information on environmental
   impacts pursuant to ยง 7203.4 and in decisions concerning the major action
   that is the subject of the EISF or EIS.

   7203.3. DCRA shall submit its recommendations concerning the need for an EIS
   to the lead agency within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the submission of
   the EISF from the lead agency. DCRA shall submit its recommendations
   concerning any EIS to the lead agency by the end of the period for public
   comment on the EIS.

   7203.4. The lead agency may request relevant information from the applicant
   concerning impact, costs, benefits, and alternatives that it reasonably
   determines to be necessary in evaluating the proposed major action. If the
   lead agency has not received any response to the request for information
   within ninety (90) calendar days, the lead agency shall deny approval of the
   project.

   7203.5. For District government projects, DCRA may request relevant
   information from the lead agency concerning impact, costs, benefits, and
   alternatives that it reasonably determines to be necessary in evaluating the
   proposed major action. If DCRA has not received any response to the request
   for information within ninety (90) calendar days, DCRA shall deny approval of
   the project.

   7203.6. No agency shall issue any license, permit, certificate, or
   authorization until completion of the environmental impact review process by
   the lead agency.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 2799 (May 9, 1997).
