                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 20-7299)

7299.1. When used in this chapter of this title, the following terms shall
   have the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Act &#8211; The District of Columbia Environmental Policy Act of 1989 (20 DCMR
   7200).
   
   
   
   Action &#8211; (i) a new project or activity directly undertaken by an agency,
   board, commission, or authority of the District government, or (ii) a project
   or activity that involves the issuance of a lease, permit, license,
   certificate, or other entitlement, or permission to act by an agency of the
   District government.
   
   
   
   Adverse effects &#8211; any effect from a proposed action which has a
   significant negative environmental impact on the public health, safety, or
   welfare.
   
   
   
   Affected ANC &#8211; the ANC within which the proposed action will be
   implemented and ANCs directly adjacent to that ANC.
   
   
   
   ANC &#8211; Advisory Neighborhood Commission
   
   
   
   Applicant &#8211; non-governmental party, institution, or corporation which
   applies to the District of Columbia government for a lease, permit, license,
   certificate, or other entitlement or permission to act.
   
   
   
   Council &#8211; the Council of the District of Columbia
   
   
   
   Critical stage &#8211; that phase of a proposed action where the cost of
   altering or abandoning the action outweighs the benefits to the environment.
   
   
   
   DCRA &#8211; the District of Columbia Department of Consumer and Regulatory
   Affairs (DCRA).
   
   
   
   EISF &#8211; Environmental Impact Screening Form.
   
   
   
   EIS &#8211; Environmental Impact Statement.
   
   
   
   Emergency &#8211; any immediate threat to the public health, safety, or
   welfare, or the quality of the environment for which an immediate response is
   required by the public or private sector.
   
   
   
   Environment &#8211; the physical conditions that will be affected by a
   proposed action, including but not limited to, the land, air, water, minerals,
   flora, and fauna.
   
   
   
   Functional Equivalent &#8211; the full and adequate description and analysis
   of the environmental impact of a proposed action by an agency, board,
   commission, or authority of the District government that examines or imposes
   environmental controls under procedures that provide for notice, opportunity
   for public comment, and
   
   the creation of a reviewable record, where the description and analysis
   discusses impacts on the environment, as defined in these regulations, and
   includes information concerning, at a minimum, (1) the relationship of the
   proposed action to any applicable District or federal environmental standards;
   (2) any potential unavoidable adverse environmental impact from the project,
   if implemented; (3) any irreversible and irretrievable commitment of resources
   involved in the implementation of the project; (4) any significant impact on
   the use and conservation of energy resources; and (5) the cumulative impact of
   the project on the environment when considered in conjunction with other
   actions proposed concurrently by the applicant.
   
   
   
   Hazardous substance &#8211; any solid, liquid, gaseous, or semisolid form or
   combination that, because of its nature, concentration, physical, chemical, or
   infectious characteristic, as established by the agency, may:
   
   
   
   (a)	Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
   increase in a serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Pose a substantial hazard to human health or the environment if improperly
   treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed, including
   substances that are toxic, carcinogenic, flammable, irritants, strong
   sensitizers, or that generate pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
   means, and containers and receptacles previously used in the transportation,
   storage, use, or application of hazardous substances.
   
   
   
   Lead agency &#8211; the District government agency designated by the Mayor to
   have primary responsibility for coordinating the preparation of an
   Environmental Impact Statement.
   
   
   
   Major Action &#8211; any action that costs over 1 million dollars and that
   under ยง 7201.2 may have a significant impact on the environment, or any
   action that costs less than 1 million dollars and that under ยง 7201.4
   imminently and substantially affects the public health, safety, or welfare.
   
   
   
   Public Structure &#8211; any government-owned building, roadway, bridge,
   alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, or utility, including structures and equipment
   related to the pumping or distribution of water, sanitary sewage, storm water,
   or combination of storm water and sanitary sewage.
   
   
   
   Review Agency &#8211; DCRA.
   
   
   
   Significant &#8211; the degree to which an action has a major impact on public
   health, safety, or welfare, or the quality of the environment.
   
   
   
   Significant Negative Impact &#8211; any impact, which when considered in its
   entirety will result in a significant degradation of the environment.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 2799 (May 9, 1997).
