                                  DC REGULATIONS

EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS (ยง 14-3818)

3818.1. The following oral or written communications which are relevant to the
   merits of a proceeding and to which reasonable prior notice to all parties has
   not been given shall be considered ex parte:
   
   
   
   (a)	Communications between any party or individual representing a party and a
   Commissioner or any member of the Commission staff; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Communications described in ยง 4002.

   3818.2. The provisions of ยง 3818.1 do not apply to any of the following oral
   or written communications:
   
   
   
   (a)	Those specifically authorized by law to be made on an ex parte basis;
   
   
   
   (b)	Those related to a matter of procedure; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Those made in the course of another proceeding of the Commission to which
   the communication primarily relates, and which is on the public record.

   3818.3. The prohibition against ex parte communications shall run during the
   entire time a case is on appeal before the Commission.

   3818.4. Any communication made in violation of this section which comes to the
   attention of the Commission shall be made part of the record and an
   opportunity for rebuttal by other parties shall be offered by mailing to each
   party a copy of any such communication or memoranda regarding the
   communication.

   3818.5. Any Commissioner, or member of the Commission staff who receives an ex
   parte communication prohibited by this section shall, within forty-eight (48)
   hours after first having reason to believe that the communication is
   prohibited, prepare and deliver to the Executive Assistant a written statement
   setting forth the substance of the communication if it is in oral form, or
   deliver to the Executive Assistant the actual communication if it is in
   written form.

   3818.6. If the Commission determines that a communication was knowingly made
   (or caused to be made) by a party acting in violation of this section, the
   Commission may, to the extent consistent with the interest of justice and the
   policy of applicable law, require the party to show cause why his or her claim
   or interest in the proceeding should not be dismissed, denied, or otherwise
   adversely affected.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336, 1347 (March 7,
   1986).
