                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPEARANCES AND REPRESENTATION (§ 14-3812)

3812.1. In any proceeding, representation may be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	An individual, receiver, or trustee may appear in his or her own behalf;
   
   
   
   (b)	A member of a partnership may represent the partnership;
   
   
   
   (c)	An officer of a corporation may represent the corporation;
   
   
   
   (d)	A member selected by the members of an association or an employee of the
   association, a group of tenants or non-profit corporation may represent the
   association, group or non-profit corporation;
   
   
   
   (e)	A managing agent or property agent, licensed by the District of Columbia
   and employed by a housing provider for the day-to-day management and operation
   of a housing accommodation, may represent an owner if only the owner is named
   as a party; and
   
   
   
   (f)	An owner may represent the managing agent or property manager if only the
   managing agent is named as a party.

   3812.2. Nothing in § 3812.1 prohibits the provision of technical assistance
   by a non- profit community service agency.

   3812.3. Any person appearing before or transacting business with the
   Commission in a representative capacity may be required to establish authority
   to act in that capacity.

   3812.4. A person may be represented in any proceeding before the Commission by
   one (1) of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	An attorney admitted to the practice of law in the District of Columbia,
   pursuant to the Rules of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals;
   
   
   
   (b)	An attorney admitted to practice before the highest court of any state
   upon the granting by the Commission of a motion for special appearance;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any law student practicing under the supervision of an attorney admitted
   to practice in the District of Columbia as part of a program approved by an
   accredited law school for credit; provided, that the law student’s
   representation before the Commission is undertaken pursuant to the student’s
   participation in the clinical program; provided further, that the law
   student’s supervising attorney is present at any hearing before the
   Commission; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A family member or close personal friend of a party, where the party is
   incapable of presenting his or her case because of a language barrier,
   physical infirmity, or mental incapacity; provided, that the family member or
   friend receives no compensation for representing the party before the
   Commission.

   3812.5. The Commission may disqualify or deny, temporarily or permanently, the
   privilege of appearing or practicing before it or the Rent Administrator in
   any way, to any individual who is found by the Commission, after hearing,
   either to be lacking in the requisite qualifications to represent others or to
   have engaged in unethical, improper or unprofessional conduct; provided, that
   any individual who shall willfully mislead the Commission or its staff by a
   false statement of fact or law shall be disqualified permanently.

   3812.6. Any individual who wishes to appear in a representative capacity
   before the Commission shall file a written notice of appearance stating the
   individual’s name, local address, telephone number, District of Columbia Bar
   registration number, if applicable, and for whom the appearance is made.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336, 1343-45 (March
   7, 1986); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 2656,
   2657 (May 2, 1986).
