                                  DC REGULATIONS

ATTORNEYS FEES &#8211; COMMISSION (§ 14-3825)

3825.1. The Rent Administrator or the Rental Housing Commission may award
   attorney’s fees incurred in the administrative adjudication of a petition in
   accordance with § 902 of the Act.

   3825.2. A presumption of entitlement to an award of attorney’s fees is
   created by a prevailing tenant, who is represented by an attorney.

   3825.3. A prevailing housing provider represented by an attorney may be
   awarded attorney’s fees where the Rent Administrator or the Commission finds
   that the litigation of the tenant was frivolous, unreasonable, or without
   foundation.

   3825.4. The Commission or the Rent Administrator may deny an award of
   attorney’s fees to either a housing provider or a tenant, if it is
   determined the equities indicate.

   3825.5. Attorney’s fees are awarded only for the services of attorneys, and
   their law clerks, paralegals, or law students, who worked on the petition
   under the supervision of an attorney, who entered an appearance in the case,
   except that no award is allowable for the services of a pro se attorney who is
   a party to the proceedings.

   3825.6. Attorney’s fees shall be paid only for services performed after the
   filing of the petition and after the party notified the Rent Administrator or
   the Commission that the party is represented by an attorney, except that fees
   are allowable for a reasonable period of time prior to the notification of
   representation for any services performed in reaching a determination to
   represent the party. Written filings to the Commission signed by the attorney
   shall be deemed to constitute notice of representation.

   3825.7. An award of attorney’s fees by the Rent Administrator or the
   Commission shall be based on an affidavit executed by the attorney of record
   itemizing the attorney’s time for legal services and providing the
   applicable information listed in § 3825.8. The affidavit shall be made part
   of the agency’s official file.

   3825.8. The award of attorney’s fees shall be calculated in accordance with
   the existing case law using the following standards:
   
   
   
   (a)	The starting point shall be the lodestar, which is the number of hours
   reasonably expended on a task multiplied by a reasonable hourly rate.
   
   
   
   (b)	The lodestar amount may be reduced or increased after considering the
   following factors:
   
   
   
   (1)	the time and labor required;
   
   
   
   (2)	the novelty, complexity, and difficulty of the legal issues or questions;
   
   
   
   (3)	the skill requisite to perform the legal service properly;
   
   
   
   (4)	the preclusion of other employment by the attorney, due to acceptance of
   the case;
   
   
   
   (5)	the customary fee or prevailing rate in the community for attorneys with
   similar experience;
   
   
   
   (6)	whether the fee is fixed or contingent;
   
   
   
   (7)	time limitations imposed by the client or the circumstances;
   
   
   
   (8)	the amount involved and the results obtained;
   
   
   
   (9)	the experience, reputation, and ability of the attorney;
   
   
   
   (10)	the undesirability of the case;
   
   
   
   (11)	the nature and length of the professional relationship with the client;
   
   
   
   (12)	the award in similar cases; and
   
   
   
   (13)	the results obtained, when the moving party did not prevail on all the
   issues.

   3825.9. An attorney is any person admitted to practice law before any court in
   the District of Columbia or any state of the United States or any territory of
   the United States.

   3825.10. No attorney’s fees award shall be granted for evictions pursuant to
   § 501 of the Act.

   3825.11. An award of attorney’s fees accrues interest from the date of the
   award and the interest is calculated in accordance with § 3826.

   3825.12. Motions for an award of attorney’s fees must be submitted within
   ten (10) days after the final decision or order from the Rent Administrator or
   the Commission.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 684-86 (February 6,
   1998).
