                                  DC REGULATIONS

EVENT VENUE VALET PARKING OPERATIONS (§ 24-1611)

1611.1. Upon confirmation of an event, but in no case later than three (3)
   days prior to the event the Event Venue Valet Parking Permittee shall:
   
   (a)	Notify the Department of the event and specify the approved location(s) in
   public space that will be used to conduct Valet Parking operations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide the name, mailing address, email address, and telephone number of
   the Valet Parking Operator;
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide the Valet Parking Operator’s business license number and Valet
   Parking Operator licensed issued by the District;
   
   
   
   (c)	Remit to the Department the fees set forth in § 1607 of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Obtain the appropriate number of Emergency No Parking signs from the
   Department; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Post Department-issued Emergency No Parking signs at least seventy-two
   (72) hours prior to the confirmed event.

   1611.2. The Permittee shall prominently display the Event Venue Valet Parking
   permit at all approved times when Valet Parking services are offered by the
   Permittee.

   1611.3. Notwithstanding 24 DCMR § 108, an Event Venue Valet Parking Permittee
   may utilize either a valet stand or a freestanding valet sign, but in no case
   shall the Permittee utilize both a valet stand and a freestanding valet sign.

   1611.4. A valet stand located in the public space shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   Not occupy more than three feet by three feet (3 ft. x 3 ft.) nor at any time
   reduce the pedestrian walkway to a clear unobstructed width of less than eight
   feet (8 ft.) in the Central Business District and six feet (6 ft.) in all
   other areas of the District;
   
   
   
   
   
   Not be permanently affixed to the public space in any manner;
   
   
   
   
   
   Be easily moveable by one person;
   
   
   
   
   
   Not be placed in public space except during the hours approved for valet
   parking operations;
   
   
   
   
   
   Indicate any fees for Valet Parking;
   
   
   
   
   
   Include an approved sign attached to the stand not larger than three feet high
   by three feet wide (3 ft. x 3 ft.) with an area no smaller than 12 inches by
   18 inches (12 in. x 18 in.) indicating the name of the Permittee, name of the
   Valet Parking Operator, the Event Venue Valet Parking permit number, and the
   fee for Valet Parking;
   
   
   
   
   
   Be secured and locked when left unattended;
   
   
   
   
   
   Identify the Permittee and the permit number;
   
   
   
   
   
   Be readily visible at the point where motor vehicles are accepted for Valet
   Parking; and
   
   
   
   
   
   Comply with all applicable laws and regulations.

   1611.5. A freestanding valet sign located in public space shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   Not occupy more than three feet by three feet (3 ft. x 3 ft.) nor at any time
   reduce the pedestrian walkway to a clear unobstructed width of less than eight
   feet (8 ft.) in the Central Business District and six feet (6 ft.) in all
   other areas of the District;
   
   
   
   
   
   Not be permanently affixed to the public space in any manner;
   
   
   
   
   
   Be easily moveable by one person;
   
   
   
   
   
   Not be placed in public space except during the hours approved for valet
   parking operations;
   
   
   
   
   
   Indicate any fees for Valet Parking;
   
   
   
   
   
   Be readily visible at the point where motor vehicles are accepted for Valet
   Parking; and
   
   
   
   
   
   Comply with all applicable laws and regulations.

   1611.6. Valet Parking services shall be offered only during the hours
   specified in the Emergency No Parking sign(s) issued by the Department.

   1611.7. Valet Parking Operator shall comply with all applicable traffic laws
   and parking regulations when providing Event Venue Valet Parking services.

   1611.8. The Permittee shall remove the Emergency No Parking sign(s) no later
   than the expiration time of the last day stated on the Emergency No Parking
   signs issued in accordance with section 1610.2 of this chapter.
   
   
   
   SOURCE:	Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 5019, 5029 (June 28, 2009).
