                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 24-1699)

1699.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning
   ascribed below:
   
   
   
   Applicant – a person who applies for a permit to offer valet parking
   services.  Two or more persons applying jointly for a valet parking permit may
   be treated as a single applicant.
   
   
   
   DCRA – the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.
   
   
   
   Department – the District Department of Transportation.
   
   Event – an occasional gathering such as a party, festival, reception, or
   other such activity that people attend for a common purpose.
   
   Event Venue – a person holding a certificate of occupancy that owns or
   operates an establishment providing the location for occasional parties,
   festivals, receptions, or other such event at which persons gather for such
   activities.
   
   Immediate –a period of time not to exceed ten minutes and shall represent
   the maximum time a vehicle is allowed to remain within a Valet Staging Zone.
   
   
   
   Motor Vehicle – any vehicle propelled by internal-combustion engine,
   electricity, or steam, including any non-operational vehicle that is being
   restored or repaired.  The term &#8220;motor vehicle&#8221; shall not include
   road rollers, farm tractors, vehicles propelled only upon stationary rails or
   tracks, electric personal assistive mobility devices, and battery-operated
   wheelchairs when operated by a handicapped person at speeds not exceeding ten
   miles per hour (10 miles/hr).
   
   
   
   Permittee – a person who is issued a Valet Parking permit by the Department.
   
   
   
   Person – a natural person or a corporation, company, firm, agency,
   association, partnership, organization, individually-owned business, or
   commercial entity.
   
   
   
   Occasional or Occasional Use – less than four (4) times per week.
   
   
   
   On-going basis – four (4) or more times per week.
   
   Standard Valet Parking &#8211; valet parking provided on an on-going basis, as
   a service to customers of an establishment with a DCRA-issued Certificate of
   Occupancy.
   
   Unauthorized Staging – the picking up or dropping off of motor vehicles
   outside of the approved valet staging zone.
   
   
   
   Valet Parking – the act of removing a motor vehicle from the public
   right-of-way for the benefit of the motor vehicle’s operator, regardless of
   whether a fee is charged for the act.  Attendant parking at an off-street
   parking facility shall not constitute valet parking.  A person providing Valet
   Parking services for a non-recurring, one-time event at a private residence
   shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   
   
   
   Valet Parking Operator – a person, who through its agents, authorized
   designees, employees, or representatives, provides the service of valet
   parking.
   
   
   
   Valet Parking Plan – a plan submitted by an applicant that details the
   location of the valet parking service, the location where motor vehicles will
   be parked during valet parking hours, and the hours of operation for valet
   parking.
   
   
   
   Valet Sign – a sign, no larger than three feet by three feet (3 ft. x3 ft.)
   and no taller that four feet (4 ft.), which is not permanently affixed to the
   public space that indicates the name of the Permittee, Valet Parking Operator,
   permit number, and any fees to be charged customers for valet parking
   services.
   
   
   
   Valet Staging Zone – the public space adjacent to a curb reserved for valet
   parking.
   
   
   
   Valet Stand – a cabinet or stand with or without an umbrella affixed thereto
   with a placard affixed in front and a customer key repository and valet ticket
   compartment that is not permanently affixed to the public space, which
   indicates the name of the Permittee, Valet Parking Operator, permit number and
   any fees to be charged to customers for valet parking services.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE:	Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 5019, 5033 (June 28, 2009).
