                                  DC REGULATIONS

STANDARD VALET PARKING PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE (§ 24-1602)

1602.1. An Applicant shall submit an application to the Department to rent
   public space for a Standard Valet Staging Zone in the District of Columbia to
   offer Valet Parking services at the same location on an on-going basis.  The
   application form shall be furnished by the Department.

   1602.2. Each completed Standard Valet Parking permit application shall be
   accompanied by a Valet Parking Plan that shall include, but not be limited to,
   the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, mailing address, email address and telephone number of the
   Applicant(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	A copy of the Applicant’s business license(s) issued by the DCRA, if the
   Applicant is required to have a business license;
   
   
   
   (c)	A copy of the Applicant’s Certificate of Occupancy issued by DCRA for
   the facility used by the Applicant for the business for which the Valet
   Parking service will be provided, if the Applicant is required to have one;
   
   
   
   (d)	The name, mailing address, email address, and telephone number of the
   Valet Parking Operator;
   
   
   
   (e)	A copy of the Valet Parking license issued by DCRA or other District
   agency, if the Applicant is required to have such a license;
   
   
   
   (f)	A copy of the Valet Parking Operator’s liability insurance certificate;
   
   
   
   (g)	One (1) original and five (5) copies each of three (3) eight inch by ten
   inch (8 in. x 10 in.) glossy photographs of the public space, including the
   curb space and road way, of the proposed Valet Staging Zone.  The photographs
   shall show the following views of the proposed Valet Staging Zone:
   
   
   
   (1)	Frontal view;
   
   
   
   (2)	Sharp angle right side view; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Sharp angle left side view;
   
   
   
   (h)	Six (6) copies of a traffic flow plan, including a map, that provides all
   proposed routes from the Valet Staging area to the off-street parking facility
   location(s) where the motor vehicles will be parked;
   
   
   
   (i)	The name, address, and telephone number of the off-street parking facility
   where motor vehicles will be parked during Valet Parking hours;
   
   
   
   (j)	Verification of access to off-street parking spaces in the off-street
   parking facility described in subsection (i); and
   
   
   
   (k)	Verification that adjacent property owners, i.e. property owners to the
   immediate left, right, under, and on top of the property, have been provided
   thirty (30) days advance notice of the Valet Parking application and Valet
   Parking Plan.

   1602.3. The Applicant shall post a notice of its intent to obtain a Valet
   Parking permit in a conspicuous site at the street frontage near the proposed
   Valet Staging Zone and on the entrance to the building for thirty (30) days. 
   The Applicant shall make the Standard Valet Parking application and Valet
   Parking Plan available for public viewing during the thirty (30) day notice
   period.
   
   
   
   SOURCE:	Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 5019, 5021 (June 28, 2009).
