                                  DC REGULATIONS

EVENT VENUE VALET PARKING DUTIES (§ 24-1612)

1612.1. Written notice of each event shall be made to the Department by the
   Permittee at least three (3) business days prior to the event for which Valet
   Parking services in the Valet Staging Zone will be provided.  The method for
   providing notification will be established by the Department.
   
   1612.2 	The Department shall issue Emergency No Parking signs after a showing
   by the Applicant that:	
   
   
   
   
   
   The Event Venue possesses sufficient liability insurance;
   
   
   
   
   
   The Event Venue agrees to comply with all applicable laws and  regulations;
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   The Event Venue has satisfied all financial obligations under § 1607 of this
   chapter.

   1612.3. The Permittee shall apply to the Department for any of the following
   changes to an approved Event Venue Valet Parking permit.  These changes may be
   approved by the Department without review by the Public Space Committee. 
   These proposed changes may take effect once the Permittee has filed an
   application with the Department for these changes.  Within two (2) weeks of
   filing an application for any of the following changes, the Department shall
   issue a revised Event Venue Valet Parking permit.
   
   
   
   (a) 	A proposed reduction in the size of any approved Valet Staging Zone;
   
   
   
   (b) 	A change in the name, address, or telephone number of the Permittee; or
   
   
   
   (c) 	A proposed change to the Permittee’s business license as issued by
   DCRA.

   1612.4. The Permittee shall inform the Department in writing of any of the
   following changes to the approved Event Venue Valet Parking permit.    These
   changes must be approved by the Public Space Committee.  The Department shall
   prepare a revised Event Venue Valet Parking permit to reflect any changes
   approved by the Public Space Committee.
   
   
   
   (a)	A proposed expansion of or change in the location of any Valet Staging
   Zone; or
   
   
   
   (b)	A proposed change in the location of the Permittee’s business.
   
   
   
   SOURCE:	Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 5019, 5031 (June 28, 2009).
