                                  DC REGULATIONS

STANDARD VALET PARKING DUTIES (§ 24-1606)

1606.1. A  Permittee who is issued a Standard Valet Parking permit for Valet
   Parking services shall not park motor vehicles anywhere in the public space,
   including, but not limited to, on-street parking, on alleys, metered parking
   spaces, and areas designated as Residential Permit Parking zones.

   1606.2. The Permittee shall apply to the Department for any of the following
   changes to an approved Standard Valet Parking permit.  These changes may be
   approved by the Department without review by the Public Space Committee.  
   These proposed changes may take effect once the Permittee has filed an
   application with the Department for these changes.  Within two (2) weeks of
   filing an application for any of the following changes, the Department shall
   issue a revised Standard Valet Parking permit or shall notify the Applicant in
   writing that the application is denied, specifically listing the reasons for
   denial.  If denied, the Permittee may appeal the decision of the Department to
   the Public Space Committee.  If an appeal is not filed within fifteen (15)
   days of the receipt of the notice of denial, the Applicant must revert to
   operations under the prior approved Standard Valet Parking permit.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A proposed reduction in the size of the Valet Staging Zone or hours of
   operation for Valet Parking;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A change in the name, address, or telephone number of the Permittee;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A proposed change to the Permittee’s business license as issued by DCRA;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A change in the name, address, or telephone number of the Valet Parking
   Operator;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A proposed change to the Valet Parking Operator’s liability insurance
   certificate;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A proposed change in the Valet Parking Operator;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A change in the name, or telephone number the off-street parking facility; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A proposed change in the location of the off-street parking facility (requires
   submission of a new traffic flow plan as outlined in § 1602.2(h) of this
   chapter).

   1606.3. The Permittee shall inform the Department in writing of any of the
   following changes to the approved Standard Valet Parking permit.  These
   proposed changes must be approved by the Public Space Committee. The
   Department will prepare the revised Valet Parking permit to reflect any
   changes approved by the Public Space Committee.
   
   
   
   (a)	A proposed expansion of or change in the location of the Valet Staging
   Zone;
   
   
   
   (b)	A proposed increase in the hours of operation; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A proposed change in the location of the Permittee’s business.
   
   
   
   SOURCE:	Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 5019, 5025 (June 28, 2009).
