                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECRUITING AND HIRING (ยง 21-5202)

5202.1. Authority staff shall be employed in the following employment
   categories:
   
   
   
   (a)	At-Will &#8211; Positions that serve at the pleasure of the General
   Manager. At-will positions are not covered by the disciplinary, non-union
   appeals, and reduction in force regulations and policies and procedures. The
   General Manager may designate any non-union position as &#8220;at-will.&#8221;
   
   
   
   (b)	Regular &#8211; All positions that are not at-will.
   
   
   
   (c)	The Authority may add additional employment categories as may be needed
   from time to time.

   5202.2. Employee classifications:
   
   
   
   (a)	Temporary &#8211; Employees who are hired to perform work for a specified
   period of time or for a specific project. Temporary employee&#8217;s
   assignment may end at any time, with or without cause and with or without
   notice. Temporary employees are not covered by the Authority&#8217;s
   disciplinary, non-union appeals, and reduction in force regulations and
   policies and procedures.
   
   
   
   (b)	Intern &#8211; High school or college students on a work-study or other
   formal learning and work experience program who may receive course credit
   and/or pay for limited periods of employment. Interns are not covered by the
   Authority&#8217;s disciplinary, non-union appeals, and reduction in force
   regulations and policies and procedures.
   
   
   
   (c)	Full-time &#8211; An employee who is hired to work a regularly scheduled
   workweek of forty (40) or more hours or regularly scheduled to work 80 hours
   in a two workweek pay period.
   
   
   
   (d)	Part-time &#8211; An employee who is hired to work a regularly scheduled
   workweek of less than twenty (20) hours, or works 1,040 hours per year or
   less. Part-time employees are not covered by the Authority&#8217;s
   disciplinary, non-union appeals, and reduction in force regulations and
   policies and procedures.
   
   
   
   (e)	Probationary &#8211; All new full-time employees in regular positions and
   all full-time employees who accept a regular position must serve a
   probationary period of not less than twelve (12) months. Any employee hired is
   a new Authority employee and must satisfy the probationary period requirement
   regardless of prior government service. Completion of the probationary period
   means that, in the judgment of the Authority, the employee has performed in an
   acceptable manner for a minimum of twelve (12) months. The Authority, in its
   discretion, may extend a probationary period up to ninety (90) days. If an
   employee does not complete the probationary period, the Authority may
   terminate his/her employment. A decision to terminate a probationary employee
   is not subject to appeal.

   5202.3. Vacancies will generally be posted for a minimum of ten (10) working
   days before a job is offered. Vacancies for positions designated as scarce
   skills, or in situations where posting of the vacancy for ten (10) working
   days is determined by the General Manager to be impossible or impractical, a
   vacancy may be posted for less than ten (10) working days before a job is
   offered. The General Manager may appoint senior management staff, executive
   staff, and make emergency staff appointments without the necessity of posting
   the vacancy or competing the position.

   5202.4. The Authority&#8217;s Human Resources Department is responsible for
   recruiting candidates to fill new and vacant positions including, but not
   limited to, recruitment, applicant processing, screening interviews, reference
   checks, medical examinations, job offers, compensation and benefits
   processing, and employment records. These responsibilities may be delegated by
   the General Manager to another organizational component, as deemed
   appropriate.

   5202.5. As part of the selection process, all applicants who have been
   conditionally offered employment with the Authority will undergo a
   pre-employment medical evaluation that will include, among other things, drug
   screening. Any applicant whose medical evaluation indicates the presence of
   illegal drugs or an inability to perform the essential functions of a position
   due to mental and/or physical conditions which cannot be reasonably
   accommodated, will not be employed by the Authority.

   5202.6. Relatives of employees are eligible for employment by the Authority
   provided that such employment does not create a supervisory relationship in
   which the employees are in one another&#8217;s chain of command. For purposes
   of this section, &#8220;relative&#8221; is defined as spouse, parent,
   parent-in-law, child, step-child, sister, brother, brother-in-law,
   sister-in-law, step-parent, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, niece, nephew, first
   cousin, grandparent or grandchild, or any other related or unrelated
   individual that resides in the same household as the employee. If a
   supervisory relationship is created between employees who are related, at the
   Authority&#8217;s discretion, one employee may be reassigned noncompetitively
   to another position selected by the Authority for which the employee is
   qualified where involuntary displacement of another employee does not result.
   This reassignment may be conducted without regard to any posting or
   recruitment requirements. If a position cannot be identified, or reassignment
   is impossible or impractical, one employee will be required to separate from
   his or her Authority employment.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 6868 (June 20, 2008).
