                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONFLICT OF INTEREST (ยง 21-5213)

5213.1. Authority employees shall not participate in transactions that may
   result in a conflict of interest or the apparent conflict of interest between
   the private interests of the employee and the public interests of the
   Authority. Specifically:
   
   
   
   (a)	No employee may have a direct or indirect financial interest in any
   transaction that directly conflicts with the employee&#8217;s responsibilities
   for the Authority.
   
   
   
   (b)	No employee may solicit or accept, directly or indirectly, on their own
   behalf or on behalf of a relative, any gift, gratuity, favor, compensation,
   offer of employment, or any other thing having more than a nominal monetary
   value from any person, corporation, or other entity having or seeking to have
   contractual, business, or financial relationship with the Authority.

   5213.2. Political activities of employees of the Authority are subject to
   provisions of the Hatch Act Reform Amendment Act of 1993. This Act and the
   regulations which implement it govern employee political activities.

   5213.3. Authority employees may engage in outside employment or private
   business provided they meet the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	An Authority employee may not engage in any outside employment or other
   activity which interferes with the full and proper discharge of his or her
   duties and responsibilities as an Authority employee.
   
   
   
   (b)	Each independent outside professional activity shall be conducted on the
   employee&#8217;s own time without the use of Authority facilities, funds,
   supplies, staff or resources unless the activities are authorized and approved
   by the Authority in writing before they are initiated.
   
   
   
   (c)	Each outside professional activity is not in conflict with any activity or
   policy of the Authority.
   
   
   
   (d)	Any outside employment, private business activity or other interest shall
   not impair an employee&#8217;s mental or physical capacity to such an extent
   that he or she can no longer carry out his or her duties and responsibilities
   as an Authority employee in a proper and efficient manner

   5213.4. An employee of the Authority who worked for a contractor or was a
   contractor doing business with the Authority is prohibited from supervising,
   directing or reviewing the work of such contractor. The General Manager may,
   under circumstance deemed to be in the best interests of the Authority, waive
   this prohibition.

   5213.5. The relative of an Authority employee as defined in ยง 5202.6 may not
   work for a contractor on a project at the Authority for which the Authority
   employee has any direct responsibility or supervision.

   5213.6. No Authority employee or authorized representative shall disclose
   proprietary or confidential information belonging to the Authority to any
   person other than Authority employees and authorized representatives who need
   access to the information as part of their duties for the Authority.

   5213.7. Conflicts of Interest for Former Employees
   
   
   
   (a)	A former employee, who voluntarily leaves their employment with the
   Authority in good standing, is prohibited for 18 months after leaving their
   employment with the Authority, from working for a contractor on an Authority
   project on which the employee directly worked. The General Manager may reduce
   this limitation period if it is determined that it is in the best interests of
   the Authority after a review and recommendation by the General Counsel.
   
   
   
   (b)	Any person whose employment is terminated by the Authority other than
   pursuant to a reduction in force, is permanently barred from working on any
   Authority contract or project.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 6868 (June 20, 2008).
