                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS (ยง 21-5205)

5205.1. Benefits
   
   
   
   (a)	Full-Time Regular employees may be eligible for medical, life and other
   benefits offered by the Authority and benefits mandated by federal and
   District of Columbia laws.
   
   
   
   (b)	At-Will employees may be eligible for medical, life and other benefits
   offered by the Authority and benefits mandated by federal and District of
   Columbia laws.
   
   
   
   (c)	Interns, part-time and temporary employees are ineligible for Authority
   benefits except as required by applicable federal and District of Columbia
   laws.

   5205.2. Responsibility for Salary Administration
   
   
   
   (a)	When appropriate, the Authority&#8217;s compensation decisions will be
   based on the Authority&#8217;s overall financial condition and a review of pay
   ranges for similar jobs in the labor market.
   
   
   
   (b)	The Human Resources Department is responsible for reviewing compensation
   and for evaluating and assigning a job grade and salary range to each job
   category. It is the policy of the Authority that job grades and salary ranges
   be commensurate with each position&#8217;s responsibilities and performance
   requirements. The Authority will be guided by the principle of equal pay for
   equal work. The Human Resources Department is responsible for developing and
   administering a job evaluation program, including regular review and
   reevaluation of position descriptions.
   
   
   
   (c)	The salary range for each job description will have a minimum and a
   maximum value.

   5205.3. Premium Pay:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Authority may provide premium pay for hours worked on holidays and
   Sundays.
   
   
   
   (b)	The Authority may provide for shift pay differentials.

   5205.4. Deductions may be made from an employee&#8217;s wages as required or
   permitted under the law.

   5205.5. The General Manager may authorize individual or work group incentive
   compensation adjustments for outstanding performance, or as recognition for
   suggestions, work process improvements, operational savings, development of
   equipment or processes, and the like. The incentive compensation program may
   include skill-based pay, merit pay, gainsharing, and be in the form of lump
   sum bonus payments and temporary or permanent adjustments. The General Manager
   may also award lump sum bonus payments to employees who have demonstrated
   superior performance

   5205.6. The Authority may offer health insurance, dental benefits, optical
   benefits, life insurance, disability coverage, accidental death and
   dismemberment coverage, and such other benefits as may be determined by the
   Authority, and may contribute to insurance coverage for employee, depending
   upon, among other things, the financial status of the Authority.

   5205.7. An eligible employee who has voluntarily terminated his/her employment
   and who is rehired within six (6) months of the effective date of his/her
   resignation may receive full credit for prior employment in determining annual
   leave accrual, restoration of sick leave balance, eligibility for Authority
   contributions to the retirement program, and eligibility for other fringe
   benefits.

   5205.8. The Authority may reimburse employees for expenses incurred for school
   or training programs which are related to the employee&#8217;s present work
   requirements, or constitute continuing education in the employee&#8217;s
   field, or for career development. Reimbursement may be made for tuition, books
   and travel expenses, subject to the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	The training or educational program must be pre-approved by the Authority
   in the manner required by the Authority in order to be eligible for
   reimbursement.
   
   
   
   (b)	The amount and conditions of reimbursement payments shall be determined by
   the General Manager or his designee.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 6868 (June 20, 2008).
