                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (ยง 21-5201)

5201.1. The purpose of the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority
   Personnel Regulations (the &#8220;Regulations&#8221;), issued by the Board of
   Directors (the &#8220;Board&#8221;) of the District of Columbia Water and
   Sewer Authority (the &#8220;Authority&#8221;), is to establish guidelines,
   including policies and procedures relating to personnel matters including, but
   not limited to, the recruitment, employment, compensation, advancement,
   hiring, retention and termination of Authority employees pursuant to D. C.
   Code ยง 43-1672 et seq., the &#8220;Water and Sewer Authority Establishment
   and Department of Public Works Reorganization Act of 1996, D. C. Law 11-111,
   April 18, 1996&#8243; (the &#8220;Enabling Act&#8221;). The Authority&#8217;s
   personnel regulations and personnel policies and procedures are not a
   contract(s) of employment. Neither the Regulations nor the personnel policies
   and procedures guarantee any fixed terms and conditions of employment.
   Employment with the Authority is not guaranteed for any specific time and may
   be terminated by the Authority for any lawful reason. The Authority reserves
   the right to, in its sole discretion, modify, rescind, delete, or otherwise
   change the provisions of these Regulations and/or its personnel policies and
   procedures at any time, with or without notice, except as where required by
   law.

   5201.2. It is the Authority&#8217;s policy to conduct all personnel actions
   without regard to race; color; religion; sex; national origin; age;
   disability; or any other legally protected class in accordance with federal
   and District of Columbia law.

   5201.3. The Board delegates to the General Manager the authority to develop,
   implement and enforce personnel policies and procedures. The General Manager
   may delegate this authority to subordinate managers.

   5201.4. The General Manager is responsible for recommending to the Board new
   personnel regulations or modifications of existing personnel regulations.

   5201.5. Provisions of a properly executed collective bargaining agreement will
   take precedence over any provision in this chapter which conflicts with or is
   contrary to contract provisions.

   5201.6. If any provision in this chapter is deemed invalid, void or
   unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the chapter shall be
   construed as though the provision does not appear. Any such finding by a court
   of competent jurisdiction shall not affect the validity of any other
   provision, section, paragraph, or sentence of this chapter.

   5201.7. The Authority retains sole control of management rights, in accordance
   with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, which include, but are not
   limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Directing employees of the Authority;
   
   
   
   (b)	Hiring, promoting, transferring, assigning, and retaining employees in
   positions within the Authority, and suspending, demoting, discharging, or
   taking other disciplinary action against employees;
   
   
   
   (c)	Relieving employees of duties because of lack of work or other causes;
   
   
   
   (d)	Maintaining the efficiency of the Authority&#8217;s operations, the extent
   of usage and the nature of all equipment, and the standards for workmanship;
   
   
   
   (e)	Determining the mission of the Authority, its budget, and its
   organization;
   
   
   
   (f)	Determining the number of employees, including the number, type and grade
   of positions assigned to the organization unit, work project or tour of duty;
   
   
   
   (g)	Deciding the technology to be used in performing its work;
   
   
   
   (h)	Defining and carrying out internal security practices;
   
   
   
   (i)	Taking whatever actions may be necessary to carry out the mission of the
   Authority in emergency situations; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Altering, amending, modifying, or eliminating the manner in which the
   activities of the Authority are conducted, including the composition and size
   of the work force carrying on those activities as prescribed by law.

   5201.8. Falsification or misrepresentation of any information provided to the
   Authority may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination
   and/or may result in criminal prosecution. Where the information is provided
   in connection with an employment or promotion application, the applicant may
   also be disqualified from selection.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 6868 (June 20, 2008).
