                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXEMPTIONS (§ 1-406)

406.1. No requested record shall be withheld from inspection or copying unless
   both of the following criteria apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	It comes within one of the classes of records exempted by the D.C. Law
   1-96; and
   
   
   
   (b)	There is need in the public interest to withhold it.

   406.2. The classes of records authorized to be exempted from disclosure shall
   be those records which concern matters that are of the following nature:
   
   
   
   (a)	Trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from
   outside the government, to the extent that disclosure would result in
   substantial harm to the competitive position of the person from whom the
   information was obtained;
   
   
   
   (b)	Information of a personal nature where the public disclosure thereof would
   constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
   
   
   
   (c)	Investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, but only to
   the extent that the production of those records would do the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Interfere with enforcement proceedings;
   
   
   
   (2)	Deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication;
   
   
   
   (3)	Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
   
   
   
   (4)	Disclose the identity of a confidential source and, in the case of a
   record compiled by a law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal
   investigation, or by an agency conducting a lawful national security
   intelligence investigation, confidential information furnished only by the
   confidential source;
   
   
   
   (5)	Disclose investigative techniques and procedures not generally known
   outside the government; or
   
   
   
   (6)	Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel;
   
   
   
   (d)	Inter-agency or intra-agency memorandums or letters which would not be
   available by law to a party other than an agency in litigation with the
   agency;
   
   
   
   (e)	Test questions and answers to be used in future license, employment, or
   academic examinations, but not previously administered examinations or answers
   to questions thereon;
   
   
   
   (f)	Information specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than
   this section), provided that the statute does one of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in a manner as to
   leave no discretion on the issue; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular
   types of matters to be withheld;
   
   
   
   (g)	Information specifically authorized by Federal law under criteria
   established by a Presidential Executive Order to be kept secret in the
   interest of national defense or foreign policy which is in fact properly
   classified pursuant to that Executive Order;
   
   
   
   (h)	Information exempted from disclosure by D.C. Official Code § 28-4505
   (2001);
   
   
   
   (i)	Information disclosed pursuant to D.C. Official Code § 5-417 (2001);
   
   
   
   (j)	Any specific response plan, including any District of Columbia response
   plan, as that term is defined in D.C. Official Code § 7- 2301(1A) (2001), and
   any specific vulnerability assessment, either of which is intended to prevent
   or to mitigate an act of terrorism, as that term is defined in D.C. Official
   Code § 22-3152(1) (2001);
   
   
   
   (k)	Information exempt from disclosure by § 47-2851.06 (2001); and
   
   
   
   (l)	Any further exemption from disclosure that may be provided by applicable
   law.

   406.3. Any reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be provided to any
   person requesting the record after deletion of those portions, which are
   exempt under this section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 24 DCR 6211, 6213-15 (January 27,
   1978); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 52, 55 (January 7,
   2005).
