                                  DC REGULATIONS

ASSESSMENT AND DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES (§ 29-9103)

Assessment and diagnostic services shall include the initial evaluation, initial
and ongoing collection of relevant information, and subsequent monitoring of
information about a beneficiary who needs access to ASARS treatment.







Assessment and diagnostic services shall include the following categories:







Initial assessment and diagnostic services;







Comprehensive assessment and diagnostic services;







Ongoing assessment and diagnostic services; and







Brief assessment and diagnostic services.







The assessment instruments shall incorporate American Society for Addiction
Medicine (ASAM) patient placement criteria.







The initial assessment and diagnostic services shall be required to determine an
individual’s need for substance treatment.







The comprehensive assessment and diagnostic services shall be required to
initiate a treatment episode.







Initial, comprehensive, and ongoing assessment and diagnostic services shall
include referrals, as well as development and refinement of treatment plans.







Brief assessment and diagnostic services shall be used to incorporate updates to
a beneficiary’s diagnosis or treatment plan prior to transfer into a different
level of care.  Brief assessment and diagnostic services shall also be used to
pre-screen for hospitalization and prior to a beneficiary’s discharge from
ASARS treatment.







Initial and comprehensive assessment and diagnostic services shall be performed
once per treatment episode.







Clinical care coordinators shall determine the frequency of ongoing and brief
assessment and diagnostic services and note this information in the
beneficiary’s treatment plan.







A unit of assessment and diagnostic service shall be one (1) fifteen (15) minute
increment, pursuant to Department of Health Care Finance’s (DHCF) billing
criteria.







Assessment and diagnostic services shall be subject to limitations on scope,
frequency, and duration.  Beneficiaries who require services in excess of
established limits shall require prior authorization from DHCF.







Limitations for assessment and diagnostic services, per treatment episode are as
follows:







Initial assessment and diagnostic services shall not exceed four (4) units;







Comprehensive assessment and diagnostic services shall not exceed sixteen (16)
units;







Ongoing assessment and diagnostic services shall not exceed ninety-two (92)
units; and







Brief assessment and diagnostic services shall not exceed eight (8) units.







Initial assessment and diagnostic services shall be delivered by the following
qualified practitioners:







Registered nurses;







Licensed Independent Social Workers;







Licensed Professional Counselors; and







Certified Addiction Counselors I and II.







Comprehensive, ongoing, and brief assessment and diagnostic services shall be
delivered by the following qualified practitioners:







Physicians;







Psychologists;







Licensed Independent Clinical Social Workers; and







Advanced Practice Registered Nurses.





SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 11144 (September 28, 2012).
