                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION, LETTER OF NOTIFICATION AND PLAN CONTENTS (ยง 21-1403)

1403.1. This section prescribes the information which shall be included in a
   plan submitted for approval. Applications and plans submitted to the Director
   for approval shall be made on forms provided by the Director.

   1403.2. Application forms submitted to the Director shall, at a minimum,
   contain the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name and address of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (b)	Project location, the name of the waterway, and a description of how to
   reach the site;
   
   
   
   (c)	Purpose and justification of the project and the proposed method of
   removal;
   
   
   
   (d)	Location of off-loading site;
   
   
   
   (e)	Method and location of disposal;
   
   
   
   (f)	Name and address of the contractor, if applicable; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Proposed starting date and dates on which the proposed actions will be
   undertaken.

   1403.3. Each application form shall contain the signature of the applicant
   certifying that the information provided is accurate.

   1403.4. Each plan (diagram) submitted to the Director shall include, but not
   be limited to, the following information or documentation:
   
   
   
   (a)	A vicinity map which identifies the relative location of the project site,
   off-loading site and disposal site;
   
   
   
   (b)	The area and extent of the proposed harvesting, cutting, or otherwise
   removing or eradicating of the submerged aquatic vegetation;
   
   
   
   (c)	The areas of existing submerged aquatic vegetation;
   
   
   
   (d)	Water depths on the project site;
   
   
   
   (e)	Location of major landside structures (houses and boathouses) and water
   based structures including buoys, and mooring areas, in the project area;
   
   
   
   (f)	The names and current mailing addresses of adjoining property owners
   impacted;
   
   
   
   (g)	The scale to which the plan is drawn; and
   
   
   
   (h)	The dates of the drawing or diagrams submitted.

   1403.5. An applicant submitting a plan for approval to the Director shall
   notify property owners who may be affected the proposed action through a
   letter of notification.

   1403.6. A letter of notification shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A copy of the application and proposed plan; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement directing the affected property owner(s) to contact the
   Director for additional information or provide comments concerning the
   project.

   1403.7. A copy of each letter of notification shall accompany the application
   and plan submitted to the Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 1971, 1972 (April 15, 1994).
