                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRESOLICITATION (ยง 15-2201)

2201.1. Procurement Planning. Procurement planning is the process of selecting
   the appropriate method of satisfying a Commission need considering the value,
   complexity, and schedule of the requirement. The procurement planning process
   should be a team effort that includes the participation of the contracting
   personnel and the legal and technical staff of the Commission.

   2201.2. Market Research. Commission representatives should engage in market
   research to the extent necessary to conduct effective procurements and to
   develop qualified sources to fulfill Commission requirements. Market research
   should include, but not be limited to, an assessment of the market conditions
   and the technology relating to the requirement as well as an evaluation of the
   experience of other customers of the required product or service. Market
   research should be used to help ensure that an adequate pool of qualified
   firms is available to compete for Commission requirements. Market research
   techniques include publishing requests for information (RFIs), holding
   presolicitation conferences, conducting Internet searches, and attendance by
   Commission personnel at seminars and symposia.

   2201.3. Sources of Supplies and Services. The Commission&#8217;s goal is to
   obtain supplies and services from qualified suppliers while ensuring the
   maximum level of supplier diversity in its acquisition of supplies and
   services.

   2201.4. Supplier Diversity. The Equal Opportunity for Local, Small, and
   Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Act of 1999, D.C. Law 12-268, establishes a
   fifty (50) percent goal for D.C. government contracts with local small
   business enterprises and provides a preference for local and disadvantaged
   businesses in all areas of D.C. government contracting. Commission
   representatives are required to plan and onduct procurements in a manner to
   help achieve this goal, as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	To enhance supplier diversity the Commission may establish partnership,
   teaming, or mentor-protege programs in which established firms are encouraged
   to team with local, small and disadvantaged enterprises to provide supplies or
   services to satisfy Commission requirements. The program would include
   incentive provisions, as specified by the Commission, to reward established
   firms for helping local, small and disadvantaged enterprises qualify as
   responsible contractors with the Commission;
   
   
   
   (b)	Supplier diversity may also be enhanced by using blanket purchase
   agreements and other simplified acquisition techniques specified in these
   regulations that facilitate participation by small businesses owned and
   controlled by minorities and women.

   2201.5. Obtaining Competition. The Commission, and its Contracting Officer(s)
   operating within the limits of their delegations, shall conduct procurements
   in a manner that solicits and encourages maximum practicable competition. This
   effort shall include encouraging Commission staff to describe their needs in
   terms that foster competition including, whenever possible, the use of
   performance-based specifications and statements of work (SOWs). For purchases
   at or below the simplified acquisition ceiling, it shall be sufficient for the
   Contracting Officer to obtain three quotations. For purchases of $ 2,500 or
   less, competition is preferred but not required. For purchases above the
   simplified acquisition ceiling, the Contracting Officer shall obtain maximum
   practical competition.

   2201.6. Source Lists. To the extent feasible, the Contracting Officer will
   maintain a source list of qualified contractors by type of supply or service
   for use in obtaining competition. When a source list for a class of supplies
   or services becomes too large for effective solicitation of all the listed
   firms, the Commission or the Contracting Officer may use a part of the list
   for an individual solicitation. In such cases, for each subsequent procurement
   of the particular class of supplies or services, the Commission or the
   Contracting Officer shall rotate the list to ensure that firms not previously
   solicited will have an opportunity to compete.

   2201.7. Outreach. To the maximum extent practicable, Commission personnel are
   encouraged to participate in small business fairs and other symposia and to
   use innovative methods of attracting qualified suppliers to compete for
   Commission requirements.

   2201.8. Publication of Requirements. Commission requirements shall be
   announced and given the extent of publication that reflects the size and
   complexity of the proposed procurement.

   2201.9. Publication Thresholds. An individual procurement of the Commission
   expected to exceed $ 100,000 shall be published. Such publication may be in
   newspapers and trade journals. When the Commission or Contracting Officer
   deems it effective in obtaining sources for Commission requirements,
   publication may be made in the Commerce Business Daily, published by the U.S.
   Government Printing Office.

   2201.10. Sources Sought Announcements. In instances where the Commission has
   difficulty obtaining qualified contractors, or to broaden the diversity of
   contractors available to the Commission, the Contacting Officer shall publish
   announcements seeking to identify new firms as potential contractors. Such
   announcements should identify the categories of supplies and services
   typically purchased by the Commission.

   2201.11. Prequalification of Prospective Contractors. In cases where the
   Commission has a continuing need for a type of supply or service, it may elect
   to establish a list of prequalified contractors. The intent to establish such
   a list shall be made by published announcement. On the basis of an evaluation
   of a potential contractor&#8217;s qualifications, the Commission may include
   the contractor on the list of prequalified contractors that will be solicited
   to compete for selected Commission contracts. Application for placement on the
   prequalified list shall be available at all times; however, a procurement for
   Commission requirements may be limited to solicitation of contractors included
   on the list as of the date that the solicitation is released.

   2201.12. Describing Requirements. Commission activities having requirements
   for supplies or services shall be responsible for developing the description,
   specification, or SOW that identifies the requirement. To the maximum extent
   practicable, the requirements shall be described in terms of the required
   function, performance, or objective of the procurement.

   2201.13. Supplies. For supplies, the requirements may be identified by citing
   the desired performance of functional characteristics or the industry
   standards, or by specifying a brand name for which equivalent products will be
   accepted.

   2201.14. Services. For services, the requirement shall, to the maximum extent
   practicable, be identified in an SOW that sets forth the performance
   objectives and expected outcomes of the work. The standards for the required
   level of performance and the methods of evaluation will be specified.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 5126 (September 8, 1995); as
   amended by emergency Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 6356 (September 4, 1998)
   [EXPIRED]; as amended by emergency Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 913
   (February 11, 2000) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47
   DCR 2600 (April 14, 2000).
