                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 15-2299)

2299.1. When used in these regulations, the following terms and phrases shall
   have the meanings set forth in this section. Words and terms not defined in
   these regulations shall have their commonly recognized meanings, unless
   specifically defined where they appear in the document.
   
   
   
   Best Value &#8211; The combination of quality, price, and other factors that
   provide the most effective overall response consistent with the solicitation
   of a Commission requirement.
   
   
   
   Blanket Purchase Agreement &#8211; A simplified method of fulfilling future
   needs by establishing an agreement between the Commission and a qualified
   prospective contractor that sets forth the terms and conditions under which
   future purchases may be made.
   
   
   
   Claim &#8211; A written demand or written assertion by a contractor seeking as
   a matter of right, the payment of money in a sum certain, the adjustment or
   interpretation of contract terms, or other relief arising under or related to
   the contract. A matter is not a claim unless a dispute exists between the
   Commission and the Contractor regarding the subject matter of the claim.
   
   
   
   Consultant &#8211; A firm or individual with knowledge and special abilities
   not generally available to the Commission who renders services of a purely
   advisory nature relating to and in support of Commission functions,
   administration, or management. A consultant is prohibited from making
   Commission policy.
   
   
   
   Consulting Services &#8211; Services of a purely advisory nature relating to
   Commission functions, administration and management, or program management
   that are normally provided by persons who are considered to have knowledge and
   special abilities not generally available within the Commission.
   
   
   
   Contracting Officer &#8211; An individual with a written delegation of
   authority from the Commission to manage and oversee the financial, legal and
   administrative processing of a procurement and to legally obligate the
   Commission as a party to a contract. The Contracting Officer may delegate
   elements of his or her authority to staff members for the purpose of managing
   a solicitation and processing a procurement.
   
   
   
   Cost Reimbursement Contract &#8211; A contract that provides for payment of
   contractor-incurred costs of performance that are allowable to the extent
   permitted by the terms of the contract.
   
   
   
   Debar &#8211; An action taken by the Commission to exclude a contractor from
   contracting and subcontracting for a specified period. An excluded contractor
   is considered &#8220;debarred.&#8221;
   
   
   
   Discussions &#8211; The conduct of oral or written communications regarding
   the content of a proposal. These communications include negotiations regarding
   terms, conditions, price, and other matters pertaining to a procurement with
   prospective contractors that have submitted proposals in response to a request
   for proposals (RFP).
   
   
   
   Dispute &#8211; A material disagreement between the Commission and the
   contractor regarding matters arising under the contract or relating to the
   contract that may result in a claim.
   
   
   
   Expert &#8211; A person or firm with special qualifications and a high degree
   of attainment in a professional, scientific, technical, or other field, whose
   knowledge and mastery of the principles, practices, problems, methods, and
   techniques of a particular field of activity, or of a specialized area within
   the field, are clearly superior to those usually possessed by ordinarily
   competent persons in that activity. The qualifications of such persons or
   firms are such that they are regarded as authorities or practitioners of
   unusual competence and skill by other persons in the profession, occupation,
   or activity. Special licenses and advanced degrees in the profession are
   usually evidence of such qualifications.
   
   
   
   Firm-Fixed Price Contract &#8211; A contract where the total obligation of the
   Commission is defined and not subject to change or adjustment on the basis of
   the contractor&#8217;s cost experience. Price adjustments may be made on the
   basis of amendments issued by the Commission.
   
   
   
   Ineligible &#8211; Any current or prospective contractor excluded from D.C.
   contracting or subcontracting under the authority of a Federal statute or
   regulation applicable to the District (such as the Davis Bacon Act, 40 U.S.C.
   §§ 276(a) et. seq.; the Service Contract Act, 41 U.S.C. §§ 351-358; or the
   Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972, 5 U.S.C. §§ 5108, 5313 et seq.,
   and 42 U.S.C. § 2203) or excluded under the authority of a District statute
   or regulation. The term includes contractors included on The List of Parties
   Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs maintained by
   the General Services Administration (GSA).
   
   
   
   Local, Small, and Disadvantaged Business Enterprises &#8211; For Commission
   procurement, the term &#8220;Local, Small, and Disadvantaged Business
   Enterprises&#8221; shall be governed by the provision of the Equal Opportunity
   Local, Small, and Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Act of 1999, D.C. Law
   12-268.
   
   
   
   Maximum Practical Competition &#8211; Full and free competition encouraging
   all responsible contractors to compete for Commission requirements.
   Consideration may be given to the estimated value, complexity, and schedule
   requirements of the Commission.
   
   
   
   Negotiated Contracts &#8211; Contracts resulting from an RFP under which
   sealed proposals (binding legal offers) have been submitted by prospective
   contractors. Negotiated contracts may be awarded on the basis of the initial
   offers received in response to the RFP without conducting discussions with the
   offerors, or after establishing a competitive range and conducting
   confidential discussions with offerors included in the competitive range.
   
   
   
   Request for Quotation (RFQ) &#8211; An inquiry by a Commission representative
   seeking information from prospective contractors regarding price or cost of
   supplies or services and terms of sale. An RFQ is not a solicitation for a
   contract.
   
   
   
   Responsible Contractor &#8211; A contractor that possesses the capability to
   perform the required contract. Elements of capability include adequate
   facilities, personnel, finances, record of performance, and business ethics.
   Responsibility may also include any special requirements included in the
   solicitation such as licenses, permits, and business size. A contractor that
   is debarred, suspended, or ineligible is not a responsible contractor.
   
   
   
   Simplified Acquisition &#8211; The acquisition of supplies and services using
   streamlined and expeditious methods in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
   simplified acquisition ceiling set forth in these regulations.
   
   
   
   Solicitation &#8211; An RFP that invites prospective contractors to submit
   offers to satisfy a Commission procurement requirement.
   
   
   
   Small Business Competition &#8211; A procurement that is reserved for
   exclusive participation by small business firms as defined under the Equal
   Opportunity for Local, Small, and Disadvantaged Business Enterprises Act of
   1999, D.C. Law 12-268.
   
   
   
   Suspension &#8211; An action by the Commission to disqualify a contractor
   temporarily from contracting and approved subcontracting for the purpose of
   protecting the integrity of Commission contracting pending a decision to debar
   the contractor.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 5126 (September 8, 1995); as
   amended by emergency Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 6356 (September 4,
   1998)[EXPIRED]; as amended by emergency Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 913
   (February 11, 2000) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47
   DCR 2600 (April 14, 2000).
