                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXCESS HOUSING AND COMMERCIAL SPACE COSTS (ยง 4-202)

202.1. If, as a result of the unlawful discriminatory acts or practices of the
   respondent, the prevailing complainant was required, in order to satisfy his
   or her housing or commercial space needs, to pay rent in excess of that which
   he or she would have paid but for the unlawful discrimination, and upon proof
   of being so required, the prevailing complainant shall be entitled to damages
   equal to the amount actually paid in excess over the rent for a comparable
   space during the period of violation, or during the period for which the
   prevailing complainant was obligated by lease to pay rent to a third party,
   whichever is greater; provided that if the lease period exceeds the period of
   violation by more than two (2) years, the damages shall be limited to two (2)
   years from the end of the period of violation.

   202.2. If, as a result of the unlawful discriminatory acts or practices of the
   respondent, the prevailing complainant suffered a demonstrable loss of income
   as a result of delays occasioned in the obtaining of commercial space in which
   to conduct his or her business, the prevailing complaint shall be entitled to
   damages equal to such lost income as can be reasonably proved.

   202.3. If, as a result of the unlawful discriminatory acts or practices of the
   respondent, the prevailing complaint was required to pay a purchase price for
   housing or commercial property in excess of prices contemporaneously paid for
   similar housing or commercial property in the same or similar area or
   neighborhood by persons not unlawfully discriminated against, the prevailing
   complaint shall be entitled to damages equal to the excess price actually
   paid.

   202.4. If, as a result of the unlawful discriminatory acts or practices of the
   respondent, the prevailing complainant was prohibited from making an offer to
   purchase housing or commercial property, or if an offer of the prevailing
   complainant to purchase housing or commercial property was rejected for an
   equal or lower offer from another purchaser; the prevailing complainant shall
   be entitled to damages equal to the difference between his or her actual or
   intended offer and the actual sales price of the housing or commercial
   property to the other purchaser.

   202.5. If the housing or commercial property for which the prevailing
   complainant intended to make an offer, or for which his or her offer was
   unlawfully rejected, is not eventually sold; or if the eventual sales price is
   equal to or above his or her offer; the complainant shall not be entitled to
   damages unless he or she was required to pay more than his or her original or
   intended offer for similar housing or commercial property, in which event he
   or she shall be entitled to damages equal to the excess of the amount paid for
   similar housing or commercial property over the original or intended offer.

   202.6. If, as a result of the unlawful discriminatory acts or practices of the
   respondent, the prevailing complainant or his or her family or his or her
   business were required to move or store all or part of his, her, or its
   personal property, or to secure temporary quarters for his or her family, the
   prevailing complainant shall be entitled to reimbursement of such moving or
   storage expenses or expenses for temporary quarters.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 31 DCR 6259, 6260 (December 14, 1984);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 2804, 2805-06 (March 19,
   1999).
