                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 20-3599)

Aggregated utility data – total whole-building energy or water data for a
specified period as provided by the utility company or a third party for the
building for a given utility type.



Building – any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.



Building owner – an individual, partnership, corporation, trust, association,
firm, joint stock company, organization, commission, or other private entity
either possessing title or designated to govern a privately-owned building, or
an agent authorized to act on behalf of the private entity.



Director – the Director of the District Department of the Environment (DDOE),
or the Director’s representative, agent, designee, or successor.



District Benchmark Results and Compliance Report – the Portfolio Manager
report that includes benchmark results, identifies reporting methodology, and
confirms completion of a building’s benchmarking to the District.



District Benchmark Reporting Template – the template developed by DDOE in
partnership with the United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA),
that exports from Portfolio Manager the building information required for
building owners to fulfill District benchmarking requirements.



District Data Collection Worksheet – the list of data fields required to
fulfill District benchmarking requirements.



ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager benchmarking tool, or Portfolio Manager – the
system developed by the U.S. EPA that rates the energy and water performance of
a building.



Non-Residential Tenant Information Form – the District form a building owner
may use to collect information required for benchmarking from a non-residential
tenant.



Non-Residential Tenant Notification Letter – the District form letter a
building owner may use to inform a non-residential tenant that the tenant is
required to provide the information required for benchmarking.



Space use attributes – information such as the conditioned floor area, weekly
operating hours, number of occupied units, and number of computers in use as
defined by the Portfolio Manager, according to a building type.



Tenant – a person or entity entitled to the possession, occupancy, or the
benefits of any rental unit owned by another person or entity.



Utility company – an entity distributing, supplying, or transmitting
electricity, natural gas, or other fuel for heating, cooling, or power
generation, or water to a building.



Utility data – energy or water consumption data from one or more meters for a
specified period.



SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 11318 (October 31, 2008); as
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 367 (January 18, 2013).
