                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR ORIGINAL, RENEWAL, AND AMENDED BINGO, RAFFLE AND MONTE CARLO
NIGHT PARTY LICENSES (ยง 30-1202)

1202.1. Each applicant for a license to conduct bingo, raffles or Monte Carlo
   night parties shall file an application on a form provided by the Board.

   1202.2. Each application shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name and address of the applicant organization;
   
   
   
   (b)	Type of license (bingo, raffle or Monte Carlo night parties);
   
   
   
   (c)	Type of organization (religious, educational, fraternal, etc.);
   
   
   
   (d)	Class of license;
   
   
   
   (e)	Date of application;
   
   
   
   (f)	Whether the applicant organization holds a current Letter of Determination
   from the District&#8217;s Department of Finance and Revenue which allows
   contributions to the applicant organization to be deductible for District
   income tax purposes or holds a current Letter of Determination from the
   Internal Revenue Service which allows contributions to applicant organizations
   to be deductible for Federal income tax purposes;
   
   
   
   (g)	How long the applicant organization has been in existence and actively
   engaged in furthering the lawful purpose authorized by its charter,
   constitution, articles, or bylaws;
   
   
   
   (h)	Whether the applicant organization is currently incorporated in the
   District as a not-for-profit organization or association;
   
   
   
   (i)	Whether the applicant is applying as a senior citizen group;
   
   
   
   (j)	Name, address, telephone number, and date of birth of the member-in-charge
   and deputy member-in-charge;
   
   
   
   (k)	Name, address, telephone number, and date of birth of the person
   responsible for utilization of gross receipts;
   
   
   
   (l)	Names and address of twenty (20) active members of the organization, ten
   (10) for senior citizen groups;
   
   
   
   (m)	For bingo applicants, the date, times, and place of a regular bingo event
   or limited period bingo. Bingo operations shall not be held between 12:00
   midnight and 9:00 a.m.
   
   
   
   (n)	For raffle applicants, the price of raffle tickets and number of tickets
   printed or to be printed, the aggregate value of prizes, the date, time, and
   place of the raffle drawing; and for classes 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 a sworn
   statement of the ticket printer, verifying total number of tickets printed,
   the first and last numbers of tickets, and that the tickets were numbered
   consecutively without duplication;
   
   
   
   (o)	For Monte Carlo night party applicants, the date, time and place of the
   event;
   
   
   
   (p)	The lawful purpose of funds raised from bingo, raffles or Monte Carlo
   night party activities;
   
   
   
   (q)	Whether the applicant intends to lease premises;
   
   
   
   (r)	The license fees and bonds required by the Board; and
   
   
   
   (s)	The constitution or bylaws for the applicant organization.

   1202.3. If there is a material change in any factor listed in ยง1202.2, the
   applicant or licensed organization shall file an amended license application
   within ten (10) days of the material change or knowledge that a material
   change is about to occur.

   1202.4. In accordance with D.C. Official Code ยง3-1302, the issuance of any
   original, renewal, or amended license shall require the affirmative vote of at
   least four (4) members of the Board.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3788, 3789 (May 20, 1988).
