                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR ORIGINAL, RENEWAL OR AMENDED SUPPLIERS&#8217; LICENSES (ยง
30-1207)

1207.1. Each applicant for an original, renewal or amended license shall file
   an application on a form provided by the Board.

   1207.2. In accordance with D.C. Official Code ยง 3-1326, the following
   information shall be included on each application:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name and address of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (b)	Type of business or organization;
   
   
   
   (c)	Date and place of establishment;
   
   
   
   (d)	Name and address of each officer, director, shareholder partner, or other
   person with an ownership interest in the applicant&#8217;s business;
   
   
   
   (e)	Statement showing the gross receipts realized in the preceding year on the
   purchase, sale, rental or distribution of bingo or Monte Carlo night party
   supplies and equipment to licensed organizations;
   
   
   
   (f)	Name and address of any supplier or manufacturers of supplies or
   equipment;
   
   
   
   (g)	List of all gaming equipment and gaming supplies to be sold, rented or
   distributed to licensed organizations during the period of this license;
   
   
   
   (h)	Number of years the applicant has been in business of supplying supplies
   and equipment;
   
   
   
   (i)	Copy of applicant&#8217;s license to do business in the District if the
   applicant is incorporated or organized in the District. If the applicant
   business is organized outside of the District, the name and address of a
   resident agent who is authorized to be served legal documents and receive
   notice, orders, and directives of the Board;
   
   
   
   (j)	A certified copy of the price list of the applicants supplies and
   equipment which shall remain effective during the course of the license;
   
   
   
   (k)	License fee; and
   
   
   
   (l)	Police clearance reports for owners and officers from the District and
   jurisdiction of residence and the business.

   1207.3. A licensed organization shall notify the Board within ten (10) days of
   any material change in the organization, structure, mode of operations, or of
   any change in the identity of persons named or required to be named in the
   application, or of the nature or extent of their interest, or of any other
   change respecting any facts set forth in the application.

   1207.4. An amended license shall not alter the effective dates of the original
   or renewal license.

   1207.5. The Board shall not accept any application unless all information,
   fees, and bonds required by the Board are submitted with the application.

   1207.6. The issuance of any original, renewal, or amended suppliers&#8217;
   license shall require the affirmative vote of at least four (4) members of the
   Board.

   1207.7. A licensed supplier shall file a renewal application on a form
   provided by the Board at least forty-five (45) days before the expiration date
   of the license to be renewed.

   1207.8. Before a suppliers&#8217; license may be renewed, the supplier shall
   compile and file a statement reporting for the previous year, the sales,
   rental or distribution of bingo and Monte Carlo night party equipment and
   supplies to organizations licensed by the Board under this chapter. The
   statement shall be on a form prepared by the Board.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3788, 3797 (May 20, 1988).
