                                  DC REGULATIONS

ELIGIBILITY FOR BINGO, RAFFLE, AND MONTE CARLO NIGHT PARTY LICENSES (§ 30-1200)

1200.1. In accordance with D.C. Official Code §3-1323, no person, firm,
   partnership, association, organization, or corporation shall sponsor, conduct
   or hold a bingo game, raffle or Monte Carlo night party in the District of
   Columbia without a license issued by the Board.

   1200.2. In accordance with D.C. Official Code §3-1323, any person, firm,
   partnership, association, organization, or corporation engaged in, or existing
   for, charitable, benevolent, eleemosynary, humane, religious, philanthropic,
   recreational, social, educational, civic, fraternal, or other non-profit
   purposes to which contributions are deductible for federal or District income
   tax purposes is eligible for a license to conduct bingo, raffles and Monte
   Carlo night parties; Provided, that the following requirements have been met:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be incorporated in the District as a not-for-profit corporation pursuant
   to D.C. Official Code §29-301.01, or be incorporated as a charitable,
   educational or religious organization pursuant to D.C. Code §29-301.01 et
   seq.
   
   
   
   (b)	Be authorized by its constitution, articles, charter, or bylaws to further
   a lawful purpose in the District;
   
   
   
   (c)	Have at least twenty (20) members in good standing;
   
   
   
   (d)	Have been in existence as an entity for not less than one (1) year
   immediately preceding its application for a license, during which one (1) year
   period a bona fide membership was actively engaged in furthering the lawful
   purpose authorized by its constitution, articles, charter, or bylaws; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Operate without profit to its members and permit no part of any net
   earnings to inure to the benefit of any private shareholder, partner,
   employee, or individual.

   1200.3. In accordance with D.C. Official Code §3-1323, a constituent service
   program D.C. Official Code §1-1104.03 may be issued a license to conduct
   bingo games, raffles and Monte Carlo night parties.

   1200.4. For the purpose of this title, the conduct of bingo, raffles and Monte
   Carlo night parties shall include execution, operation, control or supervision
   of bingo raffles or Monte Carlo night parties; nothing in this title shall
   prohibit unlicensed persons, firms or organizations from providing
   consultation, planning or training services to licensed organizations.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: Unless otherwise noted, the authority for this chapter is §4 of
   the Law to Legalize Lotteries, Daily Numbers Games, and Bingo and Raffles for
   Charitable Purposes in the District of Columbia, D.C. Law 3-172, D.C. Official
   Code § 3-1301 et seq.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3788 (May 20, 1988).
