                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES (ยง 17-4307)

4307.1. The Board, in its discretion, may approve continuing education
   programs and activities that contribute to the growth of an applicant in
   professional competence in the practice of dental hygiene and that meet the
   other requirements of this section.

   4307.2. The Board may approve the following types of continuing education
   programs, if the program meets the requirements of ยง 4307.3:
   
   
   
   (a)	An undergraduate or graduate course given at an accredited college or
   university;
   
   
   
   (b)	A seminar or workshop;
   
   
   
   (c)	An educational program given at a conference; and
   
   
   
   (d)	In-service training.

   4307.3. To qualify for approval by the Board, a continuing education program
   shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be current in its subject matter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be developed and taught by qualified individuals; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Meet one of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	Be administered or approved by a national, state, or local dentistry or
   dental hygiene organization recognized by the Board; health care organization;
   licensed health care facility; or a college or university that is accredited
   by an accrediting body recognized by the Secretary of the United States
   Department of Education or the Council on Postsecondary Accreditation; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Be submitted by the program sponsors to the Board for review no less than
   sixty (60) days prior to the date of the presentation and be approved by the
   Board.

   4307.4. The Board may issue and update a list of approved continuing education
   programs.

   4307.5. An applicant shall have the burden of verifying whether a program is
   approved by the Board pursuant to this section prior to attending the program.

   4307.6. The Board may approve the following continuing education activities by
   an applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Serving as an instructor or speaker at a conference, seminar, workshop, or
   inservice training;
   
   
   
   (b)	Publication of an article in a professional journal or publication of a
   book or a chapter in a book or publication of a book review in a professional
   journal or bulletin;
   
   
   
   (c)	Serving as a clinical instructor for students of dental hygiene; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Participation in research as a principal investigator or research
   assistant.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 787, 791 (January 27, 1989).
