                                  DC REGULATIONS

LICENSURE BY ENDORSEMENT (§ 17-4309)

4309.1. An applicant is eligible to apply for licensure by endorsement in the
   District of Columbia if the applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Meets the education requirements set forth under § 4302.1 or § 4303 of
   this chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Has successfully completed the National Board of Dental Hygiene
   Examination;
   
   
   
   (c)	Is currently licensed, in good standing, to practice dental hygiene in
   another state of the United States; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Has passed one of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The NERB examination;
   
   
   
   (2)	A regional board examination, other than the NERB examination, and meets
   the active practice requirement set forth in § 4309.3(f); or
   
   
   
   (3)	A state dental examination determined by the Board to be substantially
   equivalent, and meets the active practice requirements set forth in §
   4309.3(f) of this chapter.

   4309.2. An applicant, holding an active license to practice dental hygiene in
   any other U.S. state, who has passed the NERB examination, shall apply for
   licensure by endorsement as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit a completed application to the Board on the required forms and
   include:
   
   
   
   (1)	The applicant&#8217;s social security number on the application; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Two (2) recent passport-type photographs of the applicant&#8217;s face
   measuring two inches by two inches (2&#8243; x 2&#8243;) which clearly expose
   the area from the top of the forehead to the bottom of the chin.
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit a copy of his or her current license with the application;
   
   
   
   (c)	Obtain verification from each state in which the applicant holds or has
   ever held a professional health occupation license, that the license is
   current and in good standing, or if the license is no longer active, that it
   was in good standing immediately prior to its expiration. The licensure
   verification form shall be sent directly to the Board, by the verifying Board;
   
   
   
   (d)	Submit the applicant&#8217;s NERB examination results, which have been
   certified or validated by the NERB;
   
   
   
   (e)	Submit the applicant&#8217;s National Board of Dental Hygiene examination
   results, which have been certified or validated by the National Board of
   Dental Hygiene Examination;
   
   
   
   (f)	Pass the District of Columbia Dental Law Examination; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Pay all required fees.

   4309.3. An applicant, holding an active license to practice dental hygiene in
   any other U.S. state, who has passed a regional board examination, other than
   the NERB examination, shall apply for licensure by endorsement as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit a completed application to the Board on the required forms and
   include:
   
   
   
   (1)	The applicant&#8217;s social security number on the application; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Two (2) recent passport-type photographs of the applicant&#8217;s face
   measuring two inches by two inches (2&#8243; x 2&#8243;) which clearly expose
   the area from the top of the forehead to the bottom of the chin.
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit a copy of his or her current license with the application;
   
   
   
   (c)	Obtain verification from each state in which the applicant holds or has
   ever held a professional health occupation license, that the license is
   current and in good standing, or if the license is no longer active, that it
   was in good standing immediately prior to its expiration. The licensure
   verification form must be sent directly to the Board, by the verifying Board;
   
   
   
   (d)	Submit the applicant&#8217;s regional board examination results, which
   have been certified or validated by the regional board;
   
   
   
   (e)	Submit the applicant&#8217;s National Board of Dental Hygiene examination
   results, which have been certified or validated by the National Board of
   Dental Hygiene Examination;
   
   
   
   (f)	Submit evidence satisfactory to the Board establishing that the applicant
   has been actively engaged in the practice of dental hygiene in another U.S.
   state, in good standing, for the three (3) years immediately preceding the
   application, and has at least one hundred and fifty (150) hours of active
   dental hygiene practice. The practice of dental hygiene in the armed forces,
   state and federal programs, and intern and residency programs may be counted
   toward the required hours of active practice;
   
   
   
   (g)	Pass the District of Columbia Dental Law Examination; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Pay all required fees.

   4309.4. In addition to the requirements set forth in this section, the Board
   may, in its discretion, require an applicant for licensure by endorsement to
   take and successfully complete a competency examination, or any portion
   thereof deemed necessary by the Board, as a prerequisite to licensure if the
   applicant&#8217;s licensure in any state was ever denied, revoked, or
   suspended for incompetence or inability to practice in a safe manner.

   4309.5. An application that remains incomplete for ninety (90) days or more
   from the date of submission shall be considered abandoned, and closed by the
   Board. The applicant shall thereafter be required to reapply, submit the
   required documents and completed forms, and pay the required fees.

   4309.6. Nothing is this section shall be construed to prohibit the Board from
   utilizing other authorized databases to verify an applicant&#8217;s current
   licensure standing in other jurisdictions of the U.S. or to review
   disciplinary records.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 787, 794 (January 27, 1989); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 9542, 9543 (October 5, 2007).
