                                  DC REGULATIONS

PERMITS TO EXCAVATE (ยง 24-3403)

3403.1. The Excavation Permit shall specify the location, extent, and method
   of the Excavation, the start date and duration of the Excavation, the
   Permittee to whom the Permit is issued, and any conditions placed on the
   Permit. The Permit term shall be sixty (60) calendar days from the date the
   work is scheduled to commence as indicated on the Permit, unless the applicant
   requests a waiver of the 60-calendar day term in writing when the application
   is submitted. In order to receive a waiver, the applicant shall demonstrate
   why the work to be authorized cannot be completed within sixty (60) calendar
   days. In addition, a Permittee may seek a renewal of its Permit for major
   construction projects.

   3403.2. Except as provided in subsection 3403.3, Excavation Permits shall be
   void if the Excavation has not begun within thirty (30) calendar days of the
   commencement date specified in the Permit, if the Excavation is not prosecuted
   diligently to its conclusion, or if the Excavation, including restoration, has
   not been completed within the specified duration.

   3403.3. The Director, in his or her discretion, may issue extensions to the
   commencement date, the duration of the Excavation, or both upon written
   request from the Permittee.

   3403.4. Permittee shall notify the Department at least two (2) business days
   prior to the commencement of work in the Public Space. Permittee shall notify
   the Department within twenty-four (24) hours after completion of work in the
   Public Space.

   3403.5. Prior to the start of work, all Permittees shall submit a list of all
   contractors and subcontractors working pursuant to the permit issued.

   3403.6. Contractor and subcontractor lists shall be amended throughout the
   excavation project as necessary. The District shall be given a minimum of
   twenty-four (24) hours notice of any change of contractor or subcontractor.

   3403.7. All work in the Public Space and Public Right-of-Way shall be
   performed in accordance with the District of Columbia Department of Public
   Works Standard Specifications for Highways and Structures (1996), as such may
   be amended from time to time, and shall be subject to the regulation, control
   and direction of the Director.

   3403.8. All work done in connection with the laying, construction, operation,
   maintenance, repair and replacement of facilities, transmission lines, and
   conduits shall be in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and
   regulations of the District and the United States.

   3403.9. Emergency Excavation. Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be
   construed to prevent any person from taking any action necessary for the
   preservation of life or property or for the restoration of interrupted service
   provided by a utility when such necessity arises during days or times when the
   Department is closed. In the event that any Person takes any action to
   Excavate or cause to be Excavated the Public Right-of-Way pursuant to this
   Chapter, such person shall apply for an emergency Permit within four hours
   after the Department&#8217;s offices are first opened. The Applicant for an
   emergency Permit shall submit a written statement of the basis of the
   emergency action and describe the Excavation performed and any work remaining
   to be performed.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2360 (March 31, 2000); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9505 (December 1, 2000); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 1905 (February 28, 2003).
