                                  DC REGULATIONS

RESTORATION OF THE PUBLIC SPACE AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY (ยง 24-3404)

3404.1. All excavations in the Public Space or Public Rights-of-Way shall be
   temporarily repaired and permanently restored in the manner and within the
   time prescribed by this Chapter, the Permit conditions, and the Standard
   Specifications. In the event of any inconsistency the most stringent
   requirement shall govern.

   3404.2. No Public Space or Public Right-of-Way permit shall be issued if the
   Applicant or Owner of the Facilities to be installed is in violation of
   subsection 3404.1.

   3404.3. All Public Space or Public Right-of-Way shall be permanently restored
   no later than the expiration of the excavation permit; Provided, however, that
   if a site is not ready for milling and overlay immediately prior to or during
   the Winter Months, the new pavement base shall, no later than permit
   expiration, be covered with an asphalt surface that conforms with the
   requirements of Section 411 &#8220;Temporary Asphalt Concrete&#8221; of the
   Standard Specifications. Permanent restoration of such sites shall be
   completed no later than the April 15th after the end of the Winter Months in
   which the asphalt surface was applied over the concrete base.

   3404.4. Excavation sites shall be maintained in a safe and rideable condition
   at all times. Permittees testing installed Facilities shall temporarily repair
   the public space immediately after such installation is completed and maintain
   such temporary repairs until permanent restoration begins.

   3404.5. The Director shall be notified, by facsimile transmission or email,
   prior to the commencement of permanent restoration work.

   3404.6. Where a Permit authorizes more than 1,200 linear feet of Excavation,
   no more than 1,200 linear feet may be excavated at one time. Permanent
   restoration shall be performed and accepted by the Director within each area
   excavated before further Excavations can be made.

   3404.7. In any case where the Public Space or Public Rights-of-Way is not
   excavated, temporarily repaired, or permanently restored in the time and
   manner specified in the Permit, this Chapter, or the Standard Specifications,
   the Director may order, the Owner or Permittee, as applicable, to commence
   corrective measures to effect the temporary repair or permanent restoration,
   as directed, within four (4) hours from the time stated on the order and
   complete such measures within six (6) hours, or as otherwise established by
   the Director. The order shall be in writing and sent by facsimile transmission
   to the Owner or Permittee, as applicable. All work ordered shall commence,
   beyond mobilization, and be completed within, the required time period unless
   the work cannot be performed because of unforeseen circumstances or days when
   work is prohibited as seasonable, as determined by the Director.

   3404.8. By applying for a Permit to Excavate the Public Space or Public
   Right-of-Way, the Permittee and Owner guarantee that all the permanent
   restoration work it and any of its agents perform, shall be maintained for two
   (2) years following its completion and acceptance by the Department. During
   this 2-year period the Permittee shall, upon, notification from the Director,
   correct all permanent restoration work to the extent required by the Director.
   The corrective work shall be completed within three (3) days of the receipt of
   the notice from the Director, not including days during which work cannot be
   performed because of unforeseen circumstances or days when work is prohibited
   as unseasonable, as determined by the Director.

   3404.9. If the Owner or Permittee should fail, neglect, or refuse to comply
   with an order issued pursuant to subsections 3404.7 or 3404.8, the Director,
   or his or her agents, may correct, temporarily repair, or permanently restore
   the Public Space or Public Right-of-Way in such manner as the Director deems
   appropriate. The Owner or Permittee shall compensate the Director for any
   direct or indirect costs incurred by the Department in undertaking the work
   authorized by this section. The Owner or Permittee shall also pay a penalty
   equal to three (3) times such costs. All penalties and costs may be deducted
   from the Permittee&#8217;s deposit pursuant to subsection 3405.3. The Owner or
   Permittee may be subject to additional enforcement action authorized by law.

   3404.10. The Department&#8217;s performance of any permanent restoration or
   repairs authorized by this section shall not relieve the Owner or Permittee
   from liability for future pavement failures at the Excavation site during the
   warranty period.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9505 (December 1, 2000); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 1905 (February 28, 2003).
