                                  DC REGULATIONS

SCHEDULING AND COORDINATION OF EXCAVATION (ยง 24-3401)

3401.1. On the first day of June and December of each year, or the first
   regular business day immediately thereafter, any Person owning underground
   stand alone conduit in the Public Right-of-Way shall submit to the Department
   a plan, in a format specified by the Department, that shows all major
   Excavation work anticipated to be done in the Public Right-of-Way in the
   two-year period immediately following the filing date of the plan
   (&#8220;two-year plan&#8221;). If no Excavation work is planned during any or
   all of the two-year period, the Owner shall certify to that fact.

   3401.2. Beginning June 1, 2000, no Public Space Permit authorizing
   non-emergency major Excavation work of the Public Right-of-Way for the purpose
   of installing Facilities shall be issued unless that Major Work is described
   or depicted on the current two-year plan filed by the Owner of the conduit to
   be installed, except that an application to Excavate made by or on behalf of a
   Person with no installed conduit may be granted if accompanied by an initial
   two-year plan.

   3401.3. Any application for a Permit to Excavate Public Space for the
   installation of Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way shall be rejected if
   dated six months or more after the filing date of the Owner&#8217;s last filed
   two-year plan.

   3401.4. The Department may disclose information contained in a two-year plan
   to any applicant for a Public Space Permit only on a need-to-know basis in
   order to facilitate coordination among excavators and to avoid unnecessary
   Excavation in the street.

   3401.5. To the maximum extent permissible under federal and District laws
   applicable to public records, the Department shall not otherwise disclose to
   the public any information contained in a two-year plan that is marked as
   proprietary, trade secret or is otherwise protected from disclosure. However,
   the Department shall have no duty to decline to disclose any information that
   is not identified on its face as proprietary, trade secret or otherwise
   protected from disclosure.

   3401.6. In the event that the Department receives a request to disclose
   information identified as proprietary, trade secret or otherwise protected
   from disclosure, the Department shall request the submitter&#8217;s consent to
   disclose the information. If consent is denied, the Department shall inform
   the plan&#8217;s submitter either that the Department will refuse to disclose
   the protected information or, if there is no proper basis for such refusal,
   that the Department intends to disclose the requested information unless
   ordered otherwise by a court.

   3401.7. Department repaying plans. The Department shall prepare, and make
   available for public inspection, a two-year repaving plan showing all proposed
   resurfacing and reconstruction of the Public Right-of-Way. The
   Department&#8217;s repaving plan shall be revised and updated on a semiannual
   basis.

   3401.8. At least one-hundred and twenty (120) calendar days prior to
   undertaking the reconstruction or resurfacing of any block, the Department
   shall submit a notice of the proposed reconstruction and resurfacing to each
   Person that has a current two-year plan on file with the Department. In
   addition, the Department&#8217;s notice shall be posted in its Permitting
   office.

   3401.9. Coordination. (a) As part of its semiannual update, the Department
   shall review all two-year plans on file and identify conflicts and
   opportunities for coordination of Excavations. The Department shall notify
   utilities with two-year plans on file of such conflicts and opportunities to
   the extent necessary to maximize coordination of Excavation. All applicants
   shall coordinate, to the maximum extent practicable, with other potentially
   affected applicants and Permittees to minimize disruption in the Public
   Right-of-Way. Where two or more parties have been permitted to excavate in the
   same area, the permit may include a joint restoration requirement. This may
   include the requirement to use the same contractor for restoration purposes.

   3401.10. Joint Excavation. Except as provided in Section 3401.12, whenever
   submitted two-year plans for two or more Permittees propose Major Work in the
   same block within a two-year period, such Major Work shall, to the maximum
   extent possible, be performed by one entity ["lead party"], subject to the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The lead party shall submit one application for all Permittees concerned;
   
   
   
   (b)	In recovering its costs from a joint excavation, the lead party filing the
   joint excavation application may not charge each co-applicant more than its
   proportionate share of the cost of the joint excavation and/or restoration.
   
   
   
   (c)	If the participating parties are unable to determine a lead party, the
   Director may make such determination. In determining the lead party in a joint
   application, the Director shall taken into consideration the volume and
   duration of work, the exigency of need, and the ability to manage.
   
   
   
   (d)	Any persons granted a permit subject to the conditions of this section may
   request that the Director, or his or her designee, mediate a dispute arising
   from a joint excavation. The Director may, at his or discretion, attempt to
   resolve the dispute arising from the joint excavation.

   3401.11. Moratorium Streets. Except as provided in Section 3401.12, no Permit
   shall be issued permitting the non-emergency Excavation of any Public
   Right-of-Way reconstructed or resurfaced less than five (5) years prior to the
   date of the application.

   3401.12. The Director is authorized in his or her discretion to waive the
   joint Excavation requirements of Section 3401.10 or the Permit issuance
   requirements specified in Section 3401.11 with respect to a particular
   Excavation for good cause shown. Requests for a waiver shall made be in
   writing. The Director shall determine in writing whether to grant or deny the
   request no later than thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of a written
   request. The Director&#8217;s failure to grant the waiver within the time
   prescribed shall not be deemed a grant of the waiver.

   3401.13. Waiver of permit issuance requirements. To request a waiver of the
   Permit issuance requirements, the applicant&#8217;s request shall include the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	the location of the Excavation;
   
   
   
   (b)	a description of the work to be performed;
   
   
   
   (c)	why the work was not performed before the street was resurfaced or
   reconstructed;
   
   
   
   (d)	why the work cannot be deferred until after the expiration of the
   applicable time limitation; and
   
   
   
   (e)	why the work cannot be performed at another location.

   3401.14. Waiver of joint Excavation requirements. The Director shall consider
   the following factors when determining whether to grant a waiver under Section
   3401.12:
   
   
   
   (a)	the impact of the proposed Excavation on the neighborhood;
   
   
   
   (b)	the applicant&#8217;s need to provide services to a property or area;
   
   
   
   (c)	the importance of facilitating the deployment of new technology; and
   
   
   
   (d)	the public&#8217;s health, safety, welfare, and convenience.

   3401.15. The Director may place additional reasonable conditions on any
   Permit(s) subject to a waiver. The Director&#8217;s decision regarding waiver
   shall be final.

   3401.16. The Director may temporarily suspend the issuance of excavation
   permits for such periods of time as are necessary to prevent unsafe traffic or
   roadway conditions. In determining whether to temporarily suspend the issuance
   of excavation permits, the Director may take into account such factors as
   severe weather projections and the number or the condition of existing
   excavations.

   3401.17. A permit issuance suspension shall not apply to excavations that the
   Director finds are required to protect public health and safety. The Director
   may limit the scope of a suspension based upon such factors as the length or
   location of excavations, and may grant waivers based upon the immediate need
   of a customer or the public for a particular service.

   3401.18. A notice of permit issuance suspension shall be posted in the Office
   of the Director of the District Division of Transportation or at any other
   location that will provide notice to applicants.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2360 (March 31, 2000); as
   amended by Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9918
   (December 15, 2000) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking Published at 48
   DCR 3075 (April 6, 2001); as amended by Final Rulemaking Published at 50 DCR
   1905 (February 28, 2003).
