                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 24-3499)

3499.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed below:
   
   
   
   Applicant &#8211; an Owner or duly authorized agent of such Owner, who has
   submitted an application for a Permit to Excavate.
   
   
   
   Block &#8211; that part of the Public Right-of-Way that includes the street
   area from the property line to the parallel property line in width and
   extending from the property line of an intersecting street to the nearest
   property line of the next intersecting street in length. For purposes of this
   definition, an intersection shall also be consider a Block&#8221;.
   
   
   
   Days &#8211; Calendar days, unless expressly stated otherwise.
   
   
   
   Department &#8211; Department of Public Works.
   
   
   
   Excavation &#8211; any work in the surface or subsurface of the Public
   Right-of-Way, including opening the Public Right-of-Way; installing,
   servicing, repairing, or modifying any Facility(ies) in or under the surface
   or subsurface of the Public Right-of-Way; and restoring the surface and
   subsurface of the Public Right-of-Way.
   
   
   
   Facility or Facilities &#8211; any and all cables, cabinets, ducts, conduits,
   converters, equipment, drains, handholds, manholes, pipes, pipelines, splice
   boxes, surface location markers, tracks, tunnels, utilities, and other
   appurtenances or tangible things owned, leased, operated, or licensed by an
   Owner or Person, that are located or are proposed to be located in the Public
   Right-of-Way.
   
   
   
   Major Work &#8211; any reasonably foreseeable Excavation that will affect the
   Public Right-of-Way for 15 or more consecutive calendar days.
   
   
   
   Moratorium Street &#8211; any Block that has been reconstructed, repaved, or
   resurfaced by the department or any other Owner or Person in the preceding
   five year period.
   
   
   
   Owner &#8211; any Person, including the District of Columbia, who owns any
   Facility or Facilities that are proposed to be installed or maintained in the
   Public Right-of-Way.
   
   
   
   Permit or Permit to Excavate &#8211; an authorization to perform an Excavation
   as it has been approved, amended, or renewed by the Department.
   
   
   
   Permittee &#8211; the Applicant to whom a Permit to Excavate has been granted
   by the Department in accordance with this Chapter.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; any natural Person, utility, firm, partnership, association,
   corporation, company or governmental agency, including the District of
   Columbia or United States of America.
   
   
   
   Public Right-of-Way &#8211; the surface, the air space above the surface
   (including air space immediately adjacent to a private structure located on
   Public Space or in a Public Right-of-Way), and the area below the surface of
   any public street, bridge, tunnel, highway, lane, path, alley, sidewalk or
   boulevard
   
   
   
   Public Space &#8211; all the publicly-owned property between the property
   lines on a street, park, or other public property as such property lines are
   shown on the records of the District, and includes any roadway, tree space,
   sidewalk, or parking between such property lines.
   
   
   
   Standard Specifications &#8211; The District of Columbia Department of Public
   Works Standard Specifications for Highways and Structures (1996), as such may
   be amended from time to time.
   
   
   
   Winter Months &#8211; The months of December through March.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2360 (March 31, 2000); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9505 (December 1, 2000).
