                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROCEDURE FOR APPEAL, CROSS APPEAL, AND STAY PENDING APPEAL (§ 1-503)

503.1. An appeal shall be taken by filing an original and three (3) copies of
   a written notice of appeal with the Board of Appeals and Review, 441 4th
   Street, N.W., 5th Floor South &#8211; Suite 540, Washington, D.C. 20001.

   503.2. An aggrieved person, owner of the property, or licensee shall file the
   notice of appeal with the Board within fifteen (15) days after service of the
   notice of the act, decision, or order with respect to which the appeal is
   filed. Filing may be accomplished by mail, but filing shall not be deemed
   timely unless the notice of appeal is received by the Board within the
   prescribed period.

   503.3. A notice of appeal shall include the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	That an appeal or cross-appeal is taken;
   
   
   
   (b)	The copy of or a description of the act, decision, or order from which the
   appeal or cross-appeal is taken;
   
   
   
   (c)	A concise statement indicating why the appellant or cross-appellant
   believes the act, decision, or order is wrong;
   
   
   
   (d)	The printed full name, address, and telephone number of the appellant or
   cross-appellant and his or her attorney, if any;
   
   
   
   (e)	The signature of the party filing the appeal or cross-appeal, or the
   signature of that party’s official representative or attorney; and
   
   
   
   (f)	A certificate of service showing the method by which and the date on which
   service of a copy of the notice of appeal or cross-appeal was made on all
   other parties separately represented, including any agency of the District
   government involved in the matter appealed or cross-appealed.

   503.4. If a timely notice of appeal is filed by a party, any other party to
   the proceeding may file a notice of cross appeal within seven (7) days after
   service of the notice of appeal, or within fifteen (15) days after service of
   the notice of the challenged act, decision, or order, whichever period last
   expires.

   503.5. The timely filing of a notice of appeal shall not operate to stay the
   challenged action, decision, or order of the Director.

   503.6. Application for a stay of an action, decision, or order of the Director
   shall ordinarily be made in the first instance to the Director.

   503.7. A motion for a stay filed with the Chairperson shall state that an
   application for a stay to the Director is not practicable, or that the
   Director has denied an application for a stay.

   503.8. The applicant shall state in the motion the reasons supporting the
   granting of a stay and the facts relied upon. If the facts are subject to
   dispute, the motion shall be supported by affidavits or other sworn statements
   or copies.

   503.9. The applicant shall attach a copy of the action, decision, or order
   sought to be stayed to the motion.

   503.10. The applicant shall serve a motion for a stay on all other parties in
   accordance with § 514, except that personal service on all parties is
   required if a ruling is requested prior to the expiration of the normal time
   for responses to be filed. Alternatively, the applicant shall state why
   personal service is not feasible.

   503.11. The Chairperson shall grant a stay only upon good cause, which shall
   involve a consideration of the likelihood of error by the Director,
   irreparable harm to the applicant, the harm to other parties, and the public
   interest.

   503.12. If a stay is granted, the Chairperson may impose reasonable conditions
   necessary to prevent irreparable injury.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 3665 (June 27, 1997),
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 44 DCR
   2934, 2937-39 (May 16, 1997).
