                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECORD ON APPEAL (§ 1-505)

505.1. Upon receipt of a notice of appeal the Executive Officer shall promptly
   acknowledge receipt, advise the Director of that receipt, and request the
   Director to compile, index, and transmit to the Board the originals or copies
   of all documents pertinent to the appeal, including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A copy of the decision or order from which the appeal is taken, together
   with any findings of fact and conclusions of law on which the act, decision,
   or order is based;
   
   
   
   (b)	All documents relied on by the Director, including any relevant documents
   timely submitted to the Director by the appellant or by other parties to the
   proceedings before the Director; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A summary (or a transcript, if any) of all testimony given or statements
   made during the course of any proceedings, conferences, or investigations
   concerning the matter in dispute, conducted by the Director prior to the
   filing of the notice of appeal.

   505.2. Upon receipt of the documents transmitted pursuant to § 505.1, the
   Executive Officer shall designate a hearing committee and a presiding member,
   assign the appeal to the committee, and notify the parties of the assignment.

   505.3. The Executive Officer shall provide all parties to the appeal a copy of
   the Director’s index of the record on appeal within ten (10) days after the
   Executive Officer receives the index.

   505.4. The documents transmitted by the Director pursuant to § 505.1, as may
   be supplemented pursuant to §505.5, shall be available for inspection by the
   parties at the office of the Board.

   505.5. On motion of one or more of the parties, or on its own motion, the
   Chairperson, consistent with the limitations set forth in § 505.8, may
   require or permit the Director, or one or more of the parties, to supplement
   the documents transmitted pursuant to § 505.1.

   505.6. Any party objecting to the transmission of or to the failure to
   transmit a document pursuant to § 505.1 shall state specifically and in
   writing the ground for the objection, and shall file the objection prior to
   the commencement of the hearing. The Chairperson shall consider and rule on
   the objection prior to the consideration of the appeal by the hearing
   committee.

   505.7. In appeals where the hearing committee conducts an evidentiary hearing
   or decides an appeal based on stipulated facts, the committee, in its
   discretion, may at any time prior to decision require a party to submit
   additional documentary or testimonial evidence, and shall afford other parties
   an opportunity to examine that evidence and to file with the committee written
   objections to its admissibility.

   505.8. In appeals where a hearing committee decides an appeal without holding
   an evidentiary hearing, the record on appeal shall consist of the record
   developed before the Director or such other record as the parties may agree
   upon by written stipulation filed with the Board.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 3665 (June 27, 1997),
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 44 DCR
   2934, 2941-42 (May 16, 1997) .
