                                  DC REGULATIONS

PETITIONS FOR RECONSIDERATION (ยง 1-513)

513.1. A party may file a petition for reconsideration, rehearing, or
   re-argument within ten (10) days after the date of the service of the decision
   on that party. A party filing a petition shall serve a copy of the petition on
   each party separately represented. No answer to a petition shall be received
   unless requested by the hearing committee, but a petition will ordinarily not
   be granted in the absence of a request.

   513.2. Neither the filing nor the granting of a petition shall operate as a
   stay of the decision unless specifically ordered by the hearing committee. A
   stay shall be granted only upon good cause, which shall involve a
   consideration of the likelihood of hearing committee error, irreparable harm
   to the petitioning party, the harm to other parties, and the public interest.

   513.3. A petition shall state briefly and specifically the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The matters of record or points of law alleged to have been erroneously
   decided or overlooked;
   
   
   
   (b)	The grounds relied upon; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The relief sought.

   513.4. If a petition is based in whole or in part on new matter, the matter
   shall be set forth in an affidavit containing a statement that the petitioner
   could not with due diligence have known or have discovered the new matter
   prior to the hearing before the hearing committee.

   513.5. The hearing committee in its discretion may permit or require oral
   argument upon a petition.

   513.6. The hearing committee shall grant or deny a petition within forty-five
   (45) days after the filing of the petition, and failure by the hearing
   committee to act within that period shall be deemed a denial of the petition.

   513.7. The decision granting or denying a petition shall be in writing, and
   shall be signed by the presiding member of the hearing committee. The
   Executive Officer shall serve copies of the decision on all parties or their
   attorneys of record.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 3665 (June 27, 1997),
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 44 DCR
   2934, 2952-54 (May 16, 1997).
