                                  DC REGULATIONS

AGENCY DISCLOSURE (ยง 17-2613)

2613.1. Upon having a substantive discussion about a specific property or
   properties with an actual or prospective buyer or seller or an actual or
   prospective landlord or tenant who is not the client of the licensee, a
   licensee shall disclose any broker relationship the licensee has with another
   party to the transaction on a written notice, substantially in the form
   approved by the Board, which clearly discloses the relationship of the broker
   or salesperson with the parties to the transaction.

   2613.2. The notice required by ยง 2613.1 of this section shall be made in
   writing at the earliest practicable time and in a form substantially in the
   form approved by the Board, but not later than the time when specific real
   estate assistance is first provided, excluding a non-substantive discussion
   held during an open house. In instances where the parties to the transaction
   are an actual or prospective landlord or tenant the disclosure shall be
   included in all applications for a lease or in the lease itself, whichever
   occurs first.

   2613.3. A broker or salesperson shall request that the actual or prospective
   purchaser or seller of residential real estate, or actual or prospective
   landlord or tenant, who is not the client of the licensee, to sign, date, and
   return a copy of the required notice to the broker or salesperson. If an
   actual or prospective purchaser or seller, or actual or prospective landlord
   or tenant, declines to sign the notice, the broker or salesperson shall make a
   notation on the agency disclosure notice indicating the date that he or she
   presented the notice to the actual or prospective purchaser, or actual or
   prospective landlord or tenant, and that the person declined to sign the
   agency disclosure notice and the reason therefore, if any, given. In the event
   of a fully executed purchase contract, the licensee shall keep a copy of the
   disclosure notices relative to the contract for three (3) years.

   2613.4. If a licensee&#8217;s relationship to a client or customer changes,
   the licensee shall disclose that fact in writing to all clients and customers
   already involved in the specific contemplated transaction.

   2613.5. The disclosure notices required by this section and the Act are set
   forth below. Each disclosure form developed by licensees shall be in
   substantially the same following format as the examples set forth in this
   section:
   
   
   
   (a)	Disclosure of Brokerage Relationship.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   THIS NOTICE IS REQUIRED BY LAW AND IS NOT A CONTRACT.
