                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPERVISION (ยง 17-2614)

2614.1. A real estate broker is responsible for the day-to-day supervision of
   real estate salespersons, associate real estate brokers, and property managers
   affiliated with the real estate broker.

   2614.2. A property manager is responsible for the day-to-day supervision of
   each person who engages in property management, ministerial, or clerical
   functions on behalf of the property manager.

   2614.3. If the real estate broker is an organization licensed pursuant to ยง
   2601.11 of this chapter, the supervision shall be carried out by the licensed
   real estate broker that manages the particular branch where the subordinate
   licensee is employed.

   2614.4. Supervision performed under this chapter shall be reasonable and
   adequate and shall be over the activities of the persons affiliated or
   registered with that office.

   2614.5. The exercise of reasonable and adequate supervision may not be
   construed as or deemed to create the existence of an employer-employee
   relationship between the supervisor and the licensed real estate organization
   and the associate real estate broker or real estate salesperson or to alter
   the status of an independent contractor.

   2614.6. Reasonable and adequate supervision shall be determined by considering
   the characteristics of the firm, which shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The number of licensed real estate salespersons and associate real estate
   brokers affiliated with the real estate broker;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number of branch offices and salespersons and associate real estate
   brokers assigned to each office;
   
   
   
   (c)	The number of management personnel assigned to each office;
   
   
   
   (d)	The normal and routine working days and hours of management and
   supervisory personnel; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The type of real estate activities of the firm.

   2614.7. Factors to be considered in determining whether supervision is
   reasonable and adequate shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The frequency of mandatory and voluntary training and education sessions;
   
   
   
   (b)	The availability of experienced supervisory personnel to review and
   discuss contract provisions, listing provisions, and advertising matters;
   
   
   
   (c)	The availability and enforcement of written procedures and policies that
   provide clear guidance for the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The handling of deposit monies and other funds in accordance with the
   escrow provisions of the chapter;
   
   
   
   (2)	Compliance with federal and District fair housing laws and regulations;
   
   
   
   (3)	Compliance with advertising requirements applicable to real estate
   transactions;
   
   
   
   (4)	Review of contracts, leases, and brokerage agreements upon execution by
   all parties to the contract, lease, or brokerage agreement;
   
   
   
   (5)	Use and limitations of unlicensed personal assistants or resident
   managers;
   
   
   
   (6)	Disclosure of agency relationships by licensees in residential real estate
   transactions;
   
   
   
   (7)	Distribution and dissemination of information on new or amended
   requirements in the real estate licensing and real property laws, rules, and
   regulations of the governments and regulatory agencies of the District, the
   federal government, and adjacent states and municipalities;
   
   
   
   (8)	The obligation of all licensees to comply with all applicable provisions
   of the Second Omnibus Regulatory Reform Act of 1998, effective April 20, 1999
   (D.C. Law 12-261; D.C. Official Code ยง 47-2853.01 et seq.), the District of
   Columbia Real Estate Licensure Act of 1982, effective March 10, 1983 (D.C. Law
   4-209; D.C. Official Code ยง 42-1701 et seq.), as amended, and the Code of
   Ethics in this chapter;
   
   
   
   (9)	Requirements, restrictions, and limitations applicable to the sale or
   lease of real property personally owned by a licensee and the purchase or
   lease of real property by a licensee for the licensee&#8217;s personal use;
   and
   
   
   
   (10)	The unauthorized practice of law by a licensee.
   
   
   
   (d)	Evidence of the following;
   
   
   
   (1)	Records of attendance at staff meetings;
   
   
   
   (2)	Review by the broker, branch office manager, or designee of the broker or
   branch office manager of contracts of sale, leases, and brokerage agreements
   executed by all parties to the contract, lease, or brokerage agreement;
   
   
   
   (3)	Review by the broker, branch office manager, or designee of the broker or
   manager of advertisements to be placed by licensees affiliated with the
   broker;
   
   
   
   (4)	Compliance with the written policies and procedures of subsection (c) of
   this section; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Dissemination of the written policies and procedures listed in subsection
   (c) of this section to licensees affiliated with the broker.

   2614.8. Upon a showing that the broker has not provided reasonable and
   adequate supervision in the areas under this section of this chapter, the
   burden of proof shall be on the broker to show that the supervision that the
   broker did provide was reasonable and adequate.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 6962 (July 29, 2005).
