                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS (§ 17-2607)

2607.1. The Commission, in its discretion, may approve continuing education
   programs that contribute to the growth in professional competence of a real
   estate broker, real estate salesperson, or property manager, and that meet the
   other requirements of this section.

   2607.2. Unless the school or organization offering the program or course is
   exempt from the accreditation requirements of the Educational Licensure
   Commission, the school or organization shall obtain certification or licensure
   from the Educational Licensure Commission.

   2607.3. Schools or organizations accredited by the Educational Licensure
   Commission that offer continuing education programs or courses shall be
   considered certified for the purposes of this section.

   2607.4. All approved or accredited education programs shall be available to
   all licensees regardless of broker affiliation.

   2607.5. The Commission may approve the following types of continuing education
   programs, if the programs meet the requirements of § 2607.8 of this section:
   
   
   
   (a)	A seminar or workshop;
   
   
   
   (b)	An educational program given at a conference, institute, or academy;
   
   
   
   (c)	An undergraduate or graduate course given at a college or university
   accredited by the Council on Postsecondary Accreditation or the Secretary of
   the United States Department of Education; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A distance learning course that has been approved by the Commission
   pursuant to § 2607.9 of this section.

   2607.6. A sponsor of a continuing education program shall submit a completed
   application to the Commission no less than sixty (60) days prior to the date
   of the presentation for each program for which the sponsor seeks approval.

   2607.7. A sponsor of a continuing education program shall have the burden of
   verifying whether the Commission, pursuant to this section, has approved a
   program prior to advertising the program as approved by the Commission.

   2607.8. In order to be approved by the Commission for continuing education
   credit, a program shall meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	The program shall contribute to the professional competence of
   participants;
   
   
   
   (b)	The program shall be directly related to increasing the
   participants&#8217; knowledge and skills in the real estate profession;
   
   
   
   (c)	The stated program objectives shall specify the level of knowledge the
   participant should have attained, or the level of competency the participant
   should be able to demonstrate, upon completing the program;
   
   
   
   (d)	The program shall be developed by persons qualified in the subject matter
   and in instructional design;
   
   
   
   (e)	The program shall be instructed by an individual approved by the
   Commission;
   
   
   
   (f)	The program content shall be current in its subject matter;
   
   
   
   (g)	All providers shall have a system of written evaluation by students in
   which the activity and instructor is evaluated at the end of each offering.
   The evaluation form shall accompany the application. Providers shall keep the
   completed evaluation forms on each course and instructor for four (4) years
   from the end of the offering; and
   
   
   
   (h)	The sponsor shall agree to allow the Commission to conduct an audit of the
   written student evaluations at any time.

   2607.9. Distance learning courses may be approved as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Distance learning courses that are certified by the Association of Real
   Estate Licensing Law Officials (ARELLO) shall be considered for approval by
   the Commission under this section if they provide the Commission with
   appropriate documentation that ARELLO certification is in effect, that the
   distance learning course meets the content requirements of § 2607.8 of this
   section, and the course meets the following other requirements of the
   Commission:
   
   
   
   (1)	Distance learning courses shall be in a mastery-based format defined as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (i)	Having at least one (1) objective;
   
   
   
   (ii)	Having a method for measuring student progress;
   
   
   
   (iii)	Having delivery formats that are interactive, which may include computer
   based instruction via CD-ROM or the Internet; and
   
   
   
   (iv)	Having a delivery format that does not deliver course material in a
   passive, text only format consisting primarily of questions similar to those
   found on the licensing examination;
   
   
   
   (2)	Distance learning courses shall be equivalent to in-class continuous
   instruction and attendance formats;
   
   
   
   (3)	Distance learning providers located outside the District of Columbia
   approved by ARELLO shall offer courses through District-based and
   Commission-approved distance learning providers; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Secondary providers of distance learning courses shall obtain
   certification by ARELLO;
   
   
   
   (b)	Approval under this section shall be revoked immediately should ARELLO
   certification be discontinued for any reason;
   
   
   
   (c)	The distance learning provider shall inform the Commission immediately if
   ARELLO certification is discontinued for any reason; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A student shall complete the distance learning course within three (3)
   months of the date of enrollment in the course.

   2607.10. The Commission may approve programs with a minimum of one (1)
   instructional hour.

   2607.11. Any significant changes in program content or program instructor
   shall be submitted to the Commission in writing no less than thirty (30) days
   prior to the change for Commission approval.

   2607.12. Approval of a program or course by the Commission shall continue
   until the end of the two (2) year licensing period during which approval is
   given.

   2607.13. A program sponsor shall issue a certificate of successful completion
   to a licensee who completes the program. A program sponsor shall not issue a
   certificate to a licensee who fails to complete the entire program.

   2607.14. Within ten (10) days after the completion of the continuing education
   program, the program sponsor shall forward to the Commission, on the program
   sponsor&#8217;s letterhead (bearing the sponsor&#8217;s name, address, and
   telephone number), a list of all participants, which includes each
   participant&#8217;s license number and employing broker&#8217;s name and
   address.

   2607.15. A program sponsor shall retain records of the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The outline of the program;
   
   
   
   (b)	The program date(s);
   
   
   
   (c)	The program location(s);
   
   
   
   (d)	The instructors; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The number of instructional hours.

   2607.16. A program sponsor shall retain a copy of the information required by
   §§ 2607.13 and 2607.14 of this section for a period of not less than five
   (5) years.

   2607.17. A sponsor of a program that has been approved by the Commission for
   one (1) license period shall reapply for approval at least sixty (60) days
   prior to the beginning of the next license renewal period.

   2607.18. A sponsor of a continuing education program that has been approved by
   the Commission may apply for renewal of that program by submitting a renewal
   application and, in alternate renewal cycles, providing an updated syllabus
   outlining the course content.

   2607.19. Sponsors or schools offering continuing education programs are
   required to notify the Commission, within thirty (30) days if ARELLO
   certification ceases.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Emergency and Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 8501(December 10,
   1993); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 6962 (July 29,
   2005); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 5047 (June 11,
   2010), as corrected by Errata Notice published at 57 DCR 7207 (August 13,
   2010); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 5867 (April 19,
   2013).
