                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS AND JUDICIAL REVIEW (§ 21-506)

506.1 	With respect to a matter governed by this chapter, a person adversely
   affected or aggrieved by an action of the Department shall exhaust
   administrative remedies by timely filing an administrative appeal with, and
   requesting a hearing before, the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH),
   established pursuant to the Office of Administrative Hearings Establishment
   Act of 2001, effective March 6, 2002, as amended (D.C. Law 14-76; D.C.
   Official Code, §§ 2-1831.01 et seq. (2007 Repl. &#038; 2012 Supp.)), or
   OAH’s successor.

   506.2. For the purposes of this chapter, an action of the Department taken
   with respect to a person shall include:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Signed settlement of an internal Notice of Infraction (NOI);
   
   
   
   (b) 	Approval;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Denial;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Compliance order;
   
   
   
   (e)	NOI;
   
   
   
   (f) 	Determination;
   
   
   
   (g) 	Cease and desist order;
   
   
   
   (h) 	Stop work order;
   
   
   
   (i)	Order to show cause; or
   
   
   
   (j)	Other action of the Department which constitutes the consummation of the
   Department’s decision-making process and is determinative of a person’s
   rights or obligations.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For the purposes of this chapter, a DDOE internal Notice of Violation or NOI:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Shall not be an action of the Department that a person may appeal to OAH;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Shall be responded to within fifteen (15) calendar days of service of the
   notice, including a written statement containing the grounds, if any, for
   opposition; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Shall not constitute a waiver of compliance or tolling of a period for a fine
   or penalty.

   506.4. If a person fails to agree to or settle an internal NOI or otherwise
   denies a claim stated in an internal NOI:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Department may cancel the internal NOI and file an NOI for adjudication
   with OAH; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The person may request adjudication by OAH.

   506.5. A person aggrieved by an action of the Department shall file a written
   appeal with OAH within the following time period:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Within fifteen (15) calendar days of service of the notice of the action; or
   
   
   
   (b) 	Another period of time stated specifically in the section for an
   identified Department action.

   506.6. Notwithstanding another provision of this section, the Department may
   toll a period for filing an administrative appeal with OAH if it does so
   explicitly in writing before the period expires.

   506.7. OAH shall:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Resolve an appeal or an NOI by:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Affirming, modifying, or setting aside the Department’s action
   complained of, in whole or in part;
   
   
   
   (2) 	Remanding for Department action or further proceedings, consistent with
   OAH’s order; or
   
   
   
   (3) 	Providing such other relief as the governing statutes, regulations and
   rules support;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Act with the same jurisdiction, power, and authority as the Department
   may have for the matter currently before OAH; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	By its final decision render a final agency action which will be subject
   to judicial review.

   506.8. The filing of an administrative appeal shall not in itself stay
   enforcement of an action; except that a person may request a stay according to
   the rules of OAH.

   506.9. The burden of proof in an appeal of an action of the Department shall
   be allocated to the person who appeals the action, except the Department shall
   bear the ultimate burden of proof when it denies a right.

   506.10. The burden of production in an appeal of an action of the Department
   shall be allocated to the person who appeals the action, except that it shall
   be allocated:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To the Department when a party challenges the Department’s suspension,
   revocation, or termination of a:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   License;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Permit;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Continuation of an approval; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Other right;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To the party who asserts an affirmative defense; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To the party who asserts an exception to the requirements or prohibitions of a
   statute or rule.

   506.11. The final OAH decision on an administrative appeal shall thereafter
   constitute the final, reviewable action of the Department, and shall be
   subject to the applicable statutes and rules of judicial review for OAH final
   orders.

   506.12. An action for judicial review of a final OAH decision shall not be a
   de novo review, but shall be a review of the administrative record alone and
   not duplicate agency proceedings or hear additional evidence.

   506.13. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provide that a filing of a petition for judicial review stays enforcement
   of an action; or
   
   
   
   	(b)	Prohibit a person from requesting a stay according to the rules of the
   court.

   506.14. If a term in a provision of this section conflicts with a provision in
   another section of this chapter, the term in the provision of this section
   controls.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Section 2 of the Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act of 1977
   (D.C. Law 2-23; 24 DCR 792 (July 22, 1977)), 8 DCRR §8-2:804, Health
   Regulations (1965 Edition); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR
   10640 (July 19, 2013).
