                                  DC REGULATIONS

STOP WORK ORDERS (§ 21-504)

504.1. Upon notice from the Department that it has determined that one (1) or
   more of the following conditions exists, a person shall stop identified work
   immediately until the situation is corrected:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Noncompliance with a notice that requires corrective action;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Material false statement or misrepresentation of fact in an application that
   the Department approved for the project;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   During the project, the license of a contractor or subcontractor is void, has
   expired, or  has been suspended or revoked;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Work involving an activity regulated under this chapter is being conducted:
   
   
   
   (1)	In violation of a provision of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (2)	In an unsafe manner; or
   
   
   
   (3) 	In a manner that poses a threat to the public health or the environment.

   504.2. A stop work order shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Have immediate effect;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be issued in writing; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	Be provided to:
   
   
   
   (1)	The person who has received an approval under this chapter;
   
   
   
   (2)	The person doing the work; or
   
   
   
   (3)	The person on site who is responsible for the work.

   504.3. The stop work order shall identify the:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Address and location of the work;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Corrective action or cessation required;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Time period required to complete corrective action;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Reason for the order;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Person issuing the order, including telephone contact, and, if available,
   email or other electronic means of address; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Steps to be taken to challenge or appeal the order.

   504.4. The Department shall:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Post the stop work order at the property; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Send the stop work order in a manner likely to insure receipt, including
   first class mail, fax with return receipt, email with return read receipt, or
   hand-delivery with certification of service.

   504.5. No person shall remove a stop work order posted at a site without the
   Department’s written approval.

   504.6. A person who continues work stopped by an order shall be in violation
   of this chapter for each day on which work is conducted, except for work:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Required immediately to stabilize the activity and place the property in a
   safe and secure condition;
   
   
   
   (b) 	That the Department orders; or
   
   
   
   (c) 	Required immediately to eliminate an unsafe condition or threat to the
   public health or the environment.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Section 2 of the Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act of 1977
   (D.C. Law 2-23; 24 DCR 792 (July 22, 1977)), 8 DCRR §8-2:804, Health
   Regulations (1965 Edition); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR
   10640 (July 19, 2013).
