                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT[COLON] PLAN REVIEW PROCESS (§ 21-518)

518.1. In order for the Department to approve a person’s proposed stormwater
   management plan (SWMP), the person and the Department shall undertake the
   process described in this section.

   518.2. The Department shall notify an applicant of each determination in the
   plan review process.

   518.3. The owner of a site shall submit an initial application for the
   Department’s approval of a major regulated project, including:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Two (2) sets of the SWMP, certified by a professional engineer licensed
   in the District of Columbia; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Each supporting document specified in the Department’s Stormwater
   Management Guidebook (SWMG).

   518.4. The Department shall make an initial determination if an application is
   complete and:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Accept the application for review;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Accept the application for review, with conditions; or
   
   
   
   (c) 	Reject the application for review, without prejudice to re-submission.

   518.5. Upon accepting an application for review, the Department shall
   determine if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The application requires additional information to determine whether or not it
   meets the requirements for approval;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The application meets the requirements for approval;
   
   
   
   (c) 	The application meets the requirements for approval, with conditions; or
   
   
   
   (d) 	The application does not meet the requirements for approval and shall be
   disapproved, without prejudice to re-submission.

   518.6. If the applicant resubmits a SWMP after making changes, the
   re-submission shall contain a list of the changes made.

   518.7. The Department may conduct one (1) or more supplemental reviews of a
   re-submitted application.

   518.8. After receiving notification that an application meets the requirements
   for the Department’s approval, the applicant shall submit a final
   preconstruction application including:
   
   
   
   (a) 	One (1) Mylar copy of the SWMP, certified by a professional engineer
   licensed in the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Seven (7) paper copies of the SWMP, certified by a professional engineer
   licensed in the District of Columbia; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	Each supporting document specified in the Department’s SWMG.

   518.9. After the applicant submits a final preconstruction application that
   meets the requirements for the Department’s approval, the Department shall
   approve the plan, and provide the applicant with one (1) approved copy of the
   SWMP for the applicant to file at the Recorder of Deeds with the declaration
   of covenants and, if applicable, to record an easement.

   518.10. The Department shall issue the remaining approved paper copies of the
   approved SWMP to the applicant after the applicant submits proof to the
   Department:
   
   
   
   (a) 	That the declaration of covenants and each applicable easement has been
   filed at the Recorder of Deeds; and
   
   
   
   (b)	That each applicable fee for Department services has been paid.

   518.11. The Department may issue the remaining approved paper copies of the
   approved SWMP to the applicant before the declaration of covenants is filed
   if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Government of the District of Columbia has conditioned transfer of the
   property upon the successful acquisition of an approved SWMP or building
   permit; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The declaration is to be filed at closing.

   518.12. Within twenty-one (21) days of the Department’s final construction
   inspection, the applicant shall submit an as-built package, including:
   
   
   
   (a) 	One (1) Mylar copy of the as-built SWMP certified by a professional
   engineer licensed in the District of Columbia; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Each supporting document specified in the Department’s SWMG.

   518.13. For a project consisting entirely of work in the public right of way,
   the requirement to submit an as-built SWMP can be met by the submission of a
   Record Drawing that:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Documents the as-built construction of best management practices and related
   stormwater infrastructure; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Is certified by an officer of the contracting company for the project.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
