                                  DC REGULATIONS

SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL[COLON] BUILDINGS, DEMOLITION, RAZING, AND SITE
DEVELOPMENT (ยง 21-545)

545.1. Erosion shall be controlled by the installation of gutters and
   downspouts as soon as practicable.

   545.2. Measures shall be taken to achieve a non-eroding velocity for
   stormwater exiting from a roof or downspout or to temporarily pipe that
   stormwater directly to a storm drain.
   
   
   
   545.3 	The site work shall maximize the preservation of natural vegetation and
   limit the removal of vegetation to that which is necessary for construction or
   landscaping activity.

   545.4. If site conditions preclude employment of other means of erosion
   control, the Department may approve installation of small dikes constructed
   along a low-lying perimeter area of a job site.

   545.5. In an area along a waterbody, a buffer must be established:
   
   
   
   (a) 	By not disturbing the land immediately adjacent to the waterbody, except
   to restore native vegetation;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Of at least twenty-five feet (25 ft) on both sides of the water body,
   measured perpendicular to and horizontally from the top of bank; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   With vegetation or other measure required by the Department to insure that the
   buffer acts as a filter to trap sediment and keep it onsite.

   545.6. The Department may approve an exception to or modification of the
   requirement for a project to establish a buffer if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   During construction, the project employs the control measures specified in the
   Department-approved Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan for the project;
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   By the end of construction and thereafter, the project:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Achieves a 1.7 inch Stormwater Retention Volume (SWRv) for the area of land
   disturbance within the buffer, calculated using the SWRv formula in Section
   520 of this chapter, with a P equal to 1.7 inches;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Applies for relief from extraordinarily difficult site conditions for a
   portion of the 1.7 inch SWRv and achieves the treatment and off-site retention
   requirements for the volume of relief granted; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Receives a Department determination to grant relief for a portion of a the 1.7
   inch SWRv,  on-site treatment is not feasible, and the Department approves
   alternatives to on-site treatment that will help to protect or restore the
   waterbody for which the buffer is intended; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The land disturbance is:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Required to construct, install, or repair a:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Public trail for walking, biking, and similar purposes;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Public point of access for boating, fishing, or viewing  a waterbody; or
   
   
   
   (C)	Stormwater outfall or other utility line; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Required to enable development of the rest of the site in a manner that is
   similar to the proposed project.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 1033 (July 28, 1978);
   incorporating text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 24 DCR 10522 (June 9,
   1978); 8 DCRR, Health Regulations (1965 Edition); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
