                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT[COLON] CERTIFICATION OF STORMWATER RETENTION CREDITS (§
21-531)

531.1. Only the Department shall certify a Stormwater Retention Credit (SRC);
   and no SRC shall be valid and usable for the purposes of this chapter unless
   the Department certifies it.

   531.2. The Department shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Assign a unique serial number to each SRC; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Retain and track information about each SRC, including final sale price.

   531.3. A gallon of retention capacity in a Best Management Practice (BMP) or
   land cover is eligible for SRC certification if it meets the following
   eligibility requirements:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The gallon retained by the BMP or land cover shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be in excess of the Stormwater Retention Volume (SWRv) for a major regulated
   project or, for a site that is not regulated, in excess of pre-project
   retention;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be no more than the SRC ceiling; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not be installed to comply with a stormwater management requirement of a
   statute, regulation, or court order, including for:
   
   
   
   (A)	Reduction of Combined Sewer Overflows (CSOs) in compliance with the
   court-approved consent decree, including court-approved modifications, for
   reducing CSOs in the District of Columbia, except that retention capacity
   installed on an experimental basis as a requirement of the consent decree
   shall be eligible if a subsequent modification of the consent decree ends the
   requirement to maintain that retention capacity; or
   
   
   
   (B)	Compliance with a Watershed Implementation Plan established under a Total
   Maximum Daily Load for the Chesapeake Bay.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Design, installation, and operation shall comply with a Department-approved
   Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Department’s final construction inspection shall be successfully
   completed;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A Department inspection shall be successfully completed within six (6) months
   before the Department decides to certify an SRC; and
   
   
   
   (e)	An executed maintenance contract or a signed promise to follow a
   maintenance plan for the period of time for which the certification of SRCs is
   requested, in compliance with the Department-approved SWMP for the BMP or land
   cover, shall be in place.
   
   
   
   531.4 	The SRC-eligible retention capacity described in Subsection 531.3(a)
   shall be calculated using the formulas in Chapter seven (7) of the
   Department’s Stormwater Management Guidebook.

   531.5. The Department shall begin accepting applications for SRC certification
   after this section is published as final in the D.C. Register.

   531.6. A person submitting an application for SRC certification shall be the
   owner of the land with the SRC-eligible BMP or land cover or shall have been
   assigned the right to a SRC that is certified.

   531.7. The Department may reject as premature an application for SRC
   certification if it is submitted more than three (3) months before the end of
   the preceding period of time for which the Department had certified a SRC for
   the retention capacity.

   531.8. The Department shall not consider an incomplete application for SRC
   certification.

   531.9. A complete application for SRC certification shall include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A completed Department application form;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Documentation of the right to the SRC that would be certified;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A copy of the Department-approved SWMP for the BMP or land cover with
   SRC-eligible retention capacity and the area draining into it;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A copy of the as-built SWMP or the BMP or land cover with SRC-eligible
   retention capacity and the area draining into it, certified by a professional
   engineer licensed in the District of Columbia and meeting the requirements of
   this chapter;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An executed maintenance contract or a signed promise to follow a maintenance
   plan for the period of time for which the certification of the SRC is
   requested;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Other documentation that the Department requires to determine that the
   eligibility requirements are satisfied, including documentation that a
   maintenance provider has the expertise and capacity to provide required
   maintenance for the time period of SRC certification; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A signed promise from the owner of the property on which the BMP or land cover
   is located to notify the Department if, during the period of time for which a
   SRC is certified, the property is sold or otherwise transferred to another
   person.

   531.10. If the Department determines that a complete application meets the
   eligibility requirements, it shall certify up to three (3) years’ worth of
   SRCs for each gallon of SRC-eligible retention capacity.

   531.11. The Department shall not certify an SRC:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For a period of time that overlaps with the period of time for which the
   Department has already certified an SRC for the same retention capacity;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For a period that begins earlier than the date of the submittal of a complete
   application; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For ineligible retention capacity.

   531.12. The Department may waive submittal of documentation required for a
   complete application if the Department has the documentation on file that
   reflects current conditions, except that the Department shall not waive
   submittal of a current maintenance agreement or maintenance contract for the
   BMP or land cover.

   531.13. The Department may conduct an inspection of a BMP or land cover for
   the purposes of this section before certification of an SRC and after
   certification.

   531.14. The Department may refuse to certify an SRC for a person:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Who is currently lapsed in compliance with an obligation to fulfill an
   Off-Site Retention Volume for a property; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Who is an original SRC owner for another SRC and who is currently not
   maintaining the associated BMP or land cover as promised for the period of
   time for which the Department certified that SRC.

   531.15. At the Director’s discretion and to allow for the aggregation of
   SRCs, the Department may approve a SWMP that proposes aggregation of retention
   from small sites under a common design and that:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Would not otherwise trigger a stormwater management performance requirement in
   this chapter;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Proposes the use of a common design for multiple installations of a BMP;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Specifies well-defined technical criteria for location and placement of each
   BMP;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Specifies details for how multiple installations will be constructed,
   operated, and maintained;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Contains requirements for inspection by the Department or a
   Department-approved third party;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Demonstrates the technical capacity to locate, design, install, and maintain
   each BMP; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Demonstrates that the requirements of this chapter will be met.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 21 (January 1, 1988); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
