                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT[COLON] PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR MAJOR SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT ACTIVITY (§ 21-522)

522.1. If a major substantial improvement activity demonstrates that it is not
   part of a common plan of development with a major land-disturbing activity,
   then it shall comply with the provisions of this section; otherwise, it shall
   comply with the requirements for a major land-disturbing activity.

   522.2. For the purposes of calculating the cost of a major substantial
   improvement to a building or structure, an applicant may exclude the cost of
   replacing manufacturing and industrial equipment, including pumps, valve
   chambers, and wastewater treatment facilities, but may not exclude the cost of
   replacing boilers, furnaces, and other equipment that is part of the heating
   and cooling system or other infrastructure commonly found in a building or
   structure.

   522.3. A site that undergoes a major substantial improvement activity shall
   employ each Best Management Practice (BMP) and land cover necessary to meet
   the requirements of this section until the property is redeveloped in
   compliance with these regulations.

   522.4. A site that undergoes a major substantial improvement activity shall
   achieve  retention of the rainfall from  the eightieth (80th) percentile
   rainfall event for the District of Columbia, measured for a twenty-four
   (24)-hour storm with a seventy-two (72)-hour antecedent dry period (0.8 inch
   rainfall event) by:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Employing each BMP necessary to retain the 0.8 inch Stormwater Retention
   Volume (SWRv), calculated as follows:
   
   
   
   	SWRv = [P × [(RvI × %I) + (RvC × %C) + (RvN × %N)] × SA] × 7.48 /12
   
   
   
   SWRv	= 	volume, in gallons, required to be retained
   
   P	= 	80th percentile rainfall event for the District (0.8 inches)
   
   RvI	= 	0.95 (runoff coefficient for impervious cover)
   
   RvC	= 	0.25 (runoff coefficient for compacted cover)
   
   RvN	= 	0.00 (runoff coefficient for natural cover)
   
   	%I 	   = 	post-development percent of site in impervious cover
   
   	%C	   =    	post-development percent of site in compacted cover
   
   	%N	   =    	post-development percent of site in natural cover
   
   SA         =	surface area, in square feet, of substantially improved building
   footprint plus land disturbance
   
   where the surface area under a BMP shall be calculated as part of the
   impervious cover (%I); and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Employing each post-development land cover factored into the SWRv.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Calculating separately and achieving the SWRv, with P equal to 1.2 inches, for
   the portion of land-disturbing activity that is in the existing Public Right
   of Way (PROW), in compliance with the section of this Chapter pertaining to
   performance requirements in the existing PROW.

   522.5. A site that undergoes a major substantial improvement activity may
   achieve the 0.8 inch SWRv on site or through a combination of on-site
   retention and off-site retention, under the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The site shall retain on site a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the 0.8
   inch SWRv, calculated for the entire site, unless the Department approves an
   application for relief from extraordinarily difficult site conditions; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	The site shall use off-site retention for the portion of the SWRv that is
   not retained on site.

   522.6. A site that undergoes a major substantial improvement activity may
   achieve on-site retention by retaining more than the 0.8 inch SWRv for an area
   of the site, subject to the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a) 	At least fifty percent (50%) of the 0.8 inch SWRv from each Site Drainage
   Area (SDA), unless it drains into the combined sewer system, shall be:
   
   
   
   		(1)	Retained; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Treated to remove eighty percent (80%) of total suspended solids; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The entirety of an area intended for use or storage of motor vehicles shall
   drain to each necessary BMP so that at least fifty percent (50%) of the 0.8
   inch SWRv flowing from that entire area is retained or treated;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Retention in excess of a 0.8 inch SWRv for one area of the site may be
   applied to the volume required for another area of the site;
   
   
   
   (c) 	The requirement for retention of a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the
   0.8 inch SWRv for the entire site shall be achieved, unless the Department
   approves an application for relief from extraordinarily difficult site
   conditions; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Retention of volume greater than that from a 1.7 inch rainfall event,
   calculated using the SWRv equation with a P equal to 1.7 inches, shall not be
   counted toward on-site retention.

   522.7. A major substantial improvement activity may achieve on-site retention
   by directly conveying volume from the regulated site to a shared BMP with
   available retention capacity.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
