                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS AND JUDICIAL REVIEW (§ 21-563)

563.1. With respect to a matter governed by Sections 557 through 562 of this
   chapter, a person adversely affected or aggrieved by an action of the District
   Department of the Environment (Department) shall exhaust administrative
   remedies by timely filing an administrative appeal with, and requesting a
   hearing before, the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH), established
   pursuant to the Office of Administrative Hearings Establishment Act of 2001,
   effective March 6, 2002, as amended (D.C. Law 14-76; D.C. Official Code,
   §§ 21831.01 et seq.), or OAH’s successor.

   563.2. For the purposes of Sections 557 through 562 of this chapter, an action
   of the Department taken with respect to a person shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Signed settlement of a decision;
   
   
   
   (b)	Approval;
   
   
   
   (c)	Denial;
   
   
   
   (d)	Determination; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Other action of the Department which constitutes the consummation of the
   Department’s decision-making process and is determinative of a person’s
   rights.

   563.3. A person aggrieved by an action of the Department shall file a written
   appeal with OAH within the following time period:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Fifteen (15) calendar days of service of the notice of the action; or
   
   
   
   (b) 	Another period of time stated specifically in this section for an
   identified Department action.

   563.4. An action of the Department identified in this section shall become the
   final, unappealable, and unreviewable action of the Department unless a person
   has filed a timely administrative appeal with OAH within fifteen (15) days of
   the action.

   563.5. Notwithstanding another provision of this section, the Department may,
   for good cause shown, extend a period for filing an administrative appeal with
   OAH if it does so explicitly in writing before the period expires.

   563.6. OAH shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Resolve an appeal by:
   
   
   
   (1)	Affirming, modifying, or setting aside the Department’s action
   complained of, in whole or in part;
   
   
   
   (2)	Remanding for Department action or further proceedings, consistent with
   OAH’s order; or
   
   
   
   (3)	Providing such other relief as the governing statutes, regulations, and
   rules support;
   
   
   
   (b)	Act with the same jurisdiction, power, and authority as the Department may
   have for the matter currently before OAH; and
   
   
   
   (c)	By its final decision render a final agency action that will be subject to
   judicial review.

   563.7. The filing of an administrative appeal shall not in itself stay
   enforcement of an action, except that a person may request a stay according to
   the rules of OAH.

   563.8. The burden of proof in an appeal of an action of the Department shall
   be allocated to the person who appeals the action, except the Department shall
   bear the ultimate burden of proof when it denies a right.

   563.9. The burden of production in an appeal of an action of the Department
   shall be allocated to the person who appeals the action, except that it shall
   be allocated:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To the Department when a party challenges the Department’s suspension,
   revocation, or termination of a:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   License;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Permit;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Continuation of an approval; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Other right;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To the party who asserts an affirmative defense; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To the party who asserts an exception to the requirements or prohibitions of a
   statute or rule.

   563.10. The final OAH decision on an administrative appeal shall thereafter
   constitute the final, reviewable action of the Department and shall be subject
   to the applicable statutes and rules of judicial review for OAH final orders.

   563.11. An action for judicial review of a final OAH decision shall not be a
   de novo review but shall be a review of the administrative record alone and
   not duplicate agency proceedings or hear additional evidence.

   563.12. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provide that a filing of a petition for judicial review stays enforcement
   of an action; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Prohibit a person from requesting a stay according to the rules of the
   court.

   563.13. If a term in a provision of this section conflicts with a provision in
   another section of this chapter, the term in the provision of this section
   controls.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10732 (July 19, 2013).
