                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT[COLON] SHARED BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (§ 21-525)

525.1. A Shared Best Management Practice (S-BMP) may, upon approval by the
   Department:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Provide stormwater management for a major regulated project in
   satisfaction of an on-site stormwater management requirement of that project;
   and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Be eligible for Department certification of a Stormwater Retention Credit
   (SRC).

   525.2. A Department-approved S-BMP may provide stormwater management for a
   nearby property if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Stormwater flow from the nearby property is directly conveyed to the S-BMP;
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The S-BMP has sufficient capacity.

   525.3. To obtain Department approval of the use of an existing S-BMP, a major
   regulated project shall show how each requirement of the project will be met
   by the S-BMP, including:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Submit an as-built Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) for the S-BMP that is
   accurate as of the time of submittal;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Prove sufficient capacity of the S-BMP;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Demonstrate the adequacy of each stormwater conveyance from the major
   regulated project to the S-BMP; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Show each drainage area conveying stormwater into the S-BMP from the major
   regulated project.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To obtain Department approval of the use of a proposed S-BMP, a major
   regulated project shall show how each requirement of the project will be met
   by the S-BMP, including:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Submit a Department-approved SWMP for the S-BMP;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Prove sufficient capacity of the S-BMP;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Demonstrate the adequacy of each stormwater conveyance from the major
   regulated project to the S-BMP; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Show each drainage area conveying stormwater into the S-BMP from the major
   regulated project.

   525.5. A major regulated project that uses a S-BMP to meet a requirement shall
   not pass the Department’s final inspection until the S-BMP passes the
   Department’s final inspection and is operational.

   525.6. After an alteration to a S-BMP to provide stormwater management for
   another site, the site with the S-BMP shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Pass the Department’s inspection; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Submit an as-built SWMP, showing each area draining into the S-BMP and the
   means of conveyance.

   525.7. The Department may certify a SRC for a S-BMP if the S-BMP meets each
   requirement for certification.

   525.8. A site with a S-BMP that provides a volume of stormwater management to
   satisfy an on-site requirement of a major regulated project shall be
   responsible for maintenance of the S-BMP capacity to manage that volume and
   shall record that responsibility in a declaration of covenants.

   525.9. If the Department determines that a S-BMP has ceased satisfying an
   on-site retention requirement for a site that underwent a major regulated
   project, the site shall be responsible for retaining the required volume on
   site or via use of off-site retention.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
