                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT[COLON] RESTRICTIONS (§ 21-523)

523.1. The Department may restrict use of an infiltration Best Management
   Practice (BMP) to prevent contamination of soil or groundwater and require
   submittal of and compliance with a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An applicant proposes to engage in a land use activity that has the potential
   to pollute stormwater runoff, as specified in the Department’s Stormwater
   Management Guidebook (SWMG); or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Surface contamination is present at the site.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To prevent stormwater migration in underlying soil or groundwater in an area
   determined to have sub-surface contamination of soil or groundwater, the
   Department may:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Prohibit use of an infiltration BMP; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Limit use of an infiltration BMP, including by requiring that an impermeable
   liner be used.

   523.3. The Department may require a BMP that receives runoff from a stormwater
   hotspot designated in the Department’s SWMG to include pollution control
   measures, including, as applicable, a baffle, skimmer, oil separator, grease
   trap, or other mechanism which prevents release of oil and grease in
   concentrations exceeding ten milligrams per Liter (10 mg/L).

   523.4. The Department may require a BMP that receives runoff from an animal
   confinement area to:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Connect to a combined sewer, if DC Water approves the connection as not
   exceeding available capacity; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Include pollution control measures necessary to protect water quality
   standards of the receiving waterbody, if the runoff discharges directly to a
   waterbody or through the separate sewer system.

   523.5. No person shall use a coal tar product, or other toxic material, to
   seal a BMP.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
