                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT[COLON] EXEMPTIONS (§ 21-517)

517.1. If a major substantial improvement activity demonstrates that it is not
   part of a common plan of development with a major land-disturbing activity,
   then it is exempt from § 520 (Stormwater Management: Performance Requirements
   For Major Land-Disturbing Activity).

   517.2. A land-disturbing activity shall be exempt from the requirements of
   Section 520 (Stormwater Management: Performance Requirements For Major
   Land-Disturbing Activity), Section 522 (Stormwater Management: Performance
   Requirements For Major Substantial Improvement Activity) and Section 529
   (Stormwater Management: Covenants and Easements) if the Department determines
   that it is conducted solely to install a best management practice or land
   cover that retains stormwater for one or more of the following purposes:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To  generate a Stormwater Retention Credit;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To earn a stormwater fee discount under the provisions of this chapter;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To provide for off-site retention through in-lieu fee payments;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To comply with a Watershed Implementation Plan established under a Total
   Maximum Daily Load for the Chesapeake Bay; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To reduce Combined Sewer Overflows (CSOs) in compliance with a court-approved
   consent decree, including court-approved modifications, for reducing CSOs in
   the District of Columbia, or in compliance with a National Pollutant Discharge
   Elimination System permit.

   517.3. A land-disturbing activity that consists solely of cutting a trench for
   utility work and related replacement of sidewalks and ramps is exempt from the
   stormwater management requirements of this chapter if it does not involve the
   reconstruction of a roadway from curb to curb or curb to centerline of
   roadway.

   517.4. Land disturbance conducted solely to respond to an emergency need to
   protect life, limb, or property or conduct emergency repairs shall be exempt
   from the requirement to comply with the stormwater management provisions of
   this chapter, §§ 516-34.

   517.5. For the purposes of calculating the cost of a major substantial
   improvement to a building or structure, an applicant may exclude the cost of
   replacing manufacturing and industrial equipment, including pumps, valve
   chambers, and wastewater treatment facilities, but may not exclude the cost of
   replacing boilers, furnaces, and other equipment that is part of the heating
   and cooling system or other infrastructure commonly found in a building or
   structure.

   517.6. A land-disturbing activity in the existing Public Right of Way is
   exempt from the requirements in Section 520 (Performance Requirements for
   Major Land-Disturbing Activity) for maintaining post-development peak
   discharge rates.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
