                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT[COLON] APPLICABILITY (§ 21-516)

516.1. No person shall engage in a major regulated project unless the
   Department has issued an approved stormwater management plan (SWMP) for the
   project.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Application for Department approval of a SWMP for a major regulated project
   shall be made by at least one (1) of the following persons:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The owner of a property on which a major regulated project is planned;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The lessee who undertakes a major regulated project, with the owner’s
   permission, on a property that the lessee has leased; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The agent of the owner or lessee.

   516.3. In preparing and implementing a SWMP, or a part of a SWMP, a person
   must comply with:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   This chapter;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The terms and conditions of the SWMP once approved; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Department’s orders and directions to achieve compliance with the
   approved SWMP.

   516.4. A major regulated project shall comply with the requirements and
   procedures of this chapter unless a provision exempts compliance.

   516.5. The owner of a site on which a major regulated project occurs and each
   person to whom the owner has designated responsibility for management of the
   site shall ensure that the site complies with the approved SWMP for the site
   until site redevelopment that follows a Department-approved SWMP occurs.

   516.6. Responsibility for compliance with an approved SWMP for a site shall
   pass to a subsequent owner of the site and each person to whom that owner
   designates responsibility for the management of the site until site
   redevelopment that follows a Department-approved SWMP occurs.

   516.7. No person shall engage in a project for the generation of a Stormwater
   Retention Credit unless the Department has issued an approved SWMP for the
   project, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
