                                  DC REGULATIONS

SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL[COLON] APPLICABILITY (§ 21-540)

540.1. No person shall engage in razing or land-disturbing activity, including
   stripping, clearing, grading, grubbing, excavating, and filling of land,
   without obtaining the Department’s approval of a soil erosion and sediment
   control plan, unless exempted in this chapter.

   540.2. Notwithstanding any exemptions provided in this chapter, a person who
   engages in a demolition project that results in debris, dust, or sediment
   leaving the site shall apply each necessary control measure, upon receiving
   instruction to do so by the Department.
   
   
   
   540.3 	Notwithstanding any exemptions provided in this chapter, a person who
   exposes erodible material and causes erosion shall apply each necessary
   control measure, upon receiving instruction to do so by the Department.

   540.4. A person who applies for Department approval of a soil erosion and
   sediment control plan shall be the owner of the property where the activity is
   to take place.

   540.5. The approved soil erosion and sediment control plan shall govern all
   construction work requiring the control of soil erosion and sediment.

   540.6. At the Director’s discretion, the Department may establish conditions
   for a general or blanket approval of soil erosion and sediment control plans
   that are solely covering specified activities carried out under and complying
   with specifications approved by the Department. These conditions may include
   requirements for an applicant to provide notice to the Department and comply
   with inspections as would normally be required under this chapter.  The
   Department shall establish and revise any such conditions as necessary and
   publish them on its website as updates to the District of Columbia Standards
   and Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 1033 (July 28, 1978);
   incorporating text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 24 DCR 10522 (June 9,
   1978); 8 DCRR, Health Regulations (1965 Edition); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
