                                  DC REGULATIONS

INSPECTIONS, NOTICES OF WORK, AND APPROVALS OF CHANGES (§ 21-503)

503.1. The Department may conduct an inspection of an activity regulated under
   this chapter, including emergency work that may otherwise be exempt, to ensure
   compliance with this chapter.

   503.2. The Department may require a change to an approved plan if the
   Department determines that a discrepancy between site conditions and the
   approved plan makes the plan inadequate to comply with the requirements of
   this chapter.

   503.3. A person may not change an approved plan or its implementation without
   Department approval, as follows:
   
   
   
   (a) 	If the change is substantial, the person shall resubmit the revised plan
   to the Department for approval in accordance with this chapter; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	If the change is not substantial, the person may secure written approval
   from the Department in the field or at the Department’s office.

   503.4. For the purposes of this chapter, a substantial change in an approved
   plan is a change in design, specification, construction, operation, or
   maintenance that the Department determines:
   
   
   
   (a) 	May result in a failure to comply with a requirement of this chapter; or
   
   
   
   (b) 	Has a significant effect on the discharge of pollutants to the
   District’s waters.

   503.5. The Department may require an additional inspection at a particular
   stage of construction by specifying that requirement in:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The approved plan;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The preconstruction inspection report; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Department’s report of the preconstruction meeting.

   503.6. No person may proceed with work past a stage of construction that the
   Department has identified as requiring an inspection unless:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Department’s inspector has issued an “approved” or “passed”
   report;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Department has approved a plan modification that eliminates the inspection
   requirement; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Department otherwise eliminates or modifies the inspection requirement in
   writing.

   503.7. A person shall communicate with the Department:
   
   
   
   (a) 	In order to schedule a preconstruction meeting or field visit before
   commencement of a land-disturbing activity, contact the Department at least
   three (3) business days before the start of the land-disturbing activity;
   
   
   
   (b) 	In order to schedule a preconstruction inspection before beginning
   construction of a Best Management Practice (BMP), contact the Department at
   least three (3) business days before the start of the construction;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   In order to schedule an inspection required for a stage of construction or
   other construction event, contact the Department at least three (3) business
   days before the anticipated inspection;
   
   
   
   (d) 	For the completion of a land-disturbing activity, give notice to the
   Department within two (2) weeks of completion of the activity; and
   
   
   
   (e) 	For the completion of a BMP, and to request a final construction
   inspection, give the Department one (1) week’s notice.

   503.8. The Department shall make reasonable efforts to accommodate a request
   for inspection outside of the Department’s normal business hours if the
   request:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Is made during the Department’s normal business hours;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Includes the information the Department requires, including the matters to be
   inspected, the location of the site work to be inspected, and details for site
   access; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	Includes payment or proof of payment of the after-hours inspection fee.

   503.9. The Department shall determine whether work, construction, and
   maintenance complies with each approved plan, including conducting a final
   construction inspection and ongoing maintenance inspections of each BMP, land
   cover, and the site.

   503.10. The Department may require inspections, on a periodic or as-needed
   basis, of a BMP, land cover, and the site to ensure that maintenance is
   sufficient to achieve performance or eligibility requirements and to avoid
   harm to the environment or public health.

   503.11. A person shall allow the Department, upon presentation of Department
   credentials, to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Enter premises where a  practice, measure, or activity subject to this
   chapter is located or conducted, or where required records are kept, including
   locations where a retention BMP or land cover  is voluntarily installed to
   generate a Stormwater Retention Credit or receive a stormwater fee discount;
   
   
   
   (b)	Access and copy a required record;
   
   
   
   (c)	Inspect a site, practice, measure, or activity subject to this chapter,
   including to verify sufficient maintenance; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Conduct sampling, testing, monitoring, or analysis.

   503.12. The Department may require as a precondition to its approval of an
   inspection that the applicant:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Make available to the Department for the purposes of the inspection on
   site, or at the Department’s offices, the professional engineer responsible
   for certifying the &#8220;as-built&#8221; plans; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Secure the seal and signature of this professional engineer certifying
   that the as-built plans comply with this chapter.

   503.13. Upon notice, a person shall promptly correct work which the Department
   has found fails to comply with an approved plan.

   503.14. The Department shall not approve the issuance of a certificate of
   occupancy for a building until the Department has determined that the approved
   stormwater management plan for the building site has been implemented for:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   On-site stormwater management; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Required off-site retention.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Section 2 of the Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act of 1977
   (D.C. Law 2-23; 24 DCR 792 (July 22, 1977)), 8 DCRR §8-2:804, Health
   Regulations (1965 Edition); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR
   10640 (July 19, 2013).
