                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT[COLON] PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR MAJOR REGULATED
PROJECTS IN THE ANACOSTIA WATERFRONT DEVELOPMENT ZONE (§ 21-524)

524.1. An Anacostia Waterfront Development Zone site (AWDZ site) is a site
   within the Anacostia Waterfront Development Zone (AWDZ) that undergoes a major
   regulated project that is publicly owned or publicly financed.

   524.2. An AWDZ site shall employ each Best Management Practice (BMP) and land
   cover necessary to meet the requirements of this section until site
   redevelopment that follows a Department-approved Stormwater Management Plan
   occurs.

   524.3. Except for activities exempted under this chapter, if a provision of
   this section conflicts with any other provision of this chapter, an AWDZ site
   shall be subject to the more stringent provision.

   524.4. An AWDZ site that undergoes a major land-disturbing activity shall
   achieve treatment of the rainfall from the ninety-fifth (95th) percentile
   rainfall event for the District of Columbia, measured for a twenty-four
   (24)-hour rainfall event with a seventy-two (72)-hour antecedent dry period
   (1.7 inch rainfall event) by:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Employing each BMP necessary to treat the 1.7 inch Water Quality Treatment
   Volume (WQTv) equal to the difference between:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The post-development runoff from the 1.7 inch rainfall event; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The 1.2 inch Stormwater Retention Volume (SWRv);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Calculating the WQTv in subsection (a) as follows:
   
   
   
   WQTv= ([P × [(RvI × %I) + (RvC × %C) + (RvN × %N)] × SA] × 7.48
   /12)-SWRv
   
   
   
   WQTv	= 	volume, in gallons, required to be retained or treated, above and
   beyond the SWRv
   
   SWRv	=	volume, in gallons, required to be retained
   
   P	= 	95th percentile rainfall event for the District (1.7 inches)
   
   RvI	= 	0.95 (runoff coefficient for impervious cover)
   
   RvC	= 	0.25 (runoff coefficient for compacted cover)
   
   RvN	= 	0.00 (runoff coefficient for natural cover)
   
   %I  	   = 	post-development percent of site in impervious cover
   
   %C	   =       post-development percent of site in compacted cover
   
   %N	   =       post-development percent of site in natural cover
   
   SA	   =	surface area in square feet, of land-disturbing activity
   
   
   
   where the surface area under a BMP shall be calculated as part of the
   impervious cover (%I); and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Employing each post-development land cover factored into the WQTv.

   524.5. An AWDZ site that undergoes a major substantial improvement activity
   and does not undergo a major land-disturbing activity shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Comply with the performance requirements for major substantial improvement
   activity, except that the Stormwater Retention Volume (SWRv) shall be equal to
   the post-development runoff from the eighty-fifth (85th) percentile rainfall
   event for the District of Columbia, measured for a twenty-four (24)-hour
   rainfall event with a seventy-two (72)-hour antecedent dry period (1.0 inch
   rainfall event);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Achieve treatment of the rainfall from the ninety-fifth (95th) percentile
   rainfall event for the District of Columbia, measured for a twenty-four
   (24)-hour rainfall event with a seventy-two (72)-hour antecedent dry period
   (1.7 inch rainfall event) by:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Employing each BMP necessary to treat the 1.7 inch Water Quality Treatment
   Volume (WQTv) equal to the difference between:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The post-development runoff from the 1.7 inch rainfall event; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The 1.0 inch SWRv;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Calculating the WQTv in subsection (b) as follows:
   
   
   
   WQTv = ([P × [(RvI × %I) + (RvC × %C) + (RvN × %N)] × SA] × 7.48
   /12)-SWRv
   
   
   
   WQTv	= 	volume, in gallons, required to be retained or treated, above and
   beyond the SWRv
   
   SWRv	=	volume, in gallons, required to be retained
   
   P	= 	95th percentile rainfall event for the District (1.7 inches)
   
   RvI	= 	0.95 (runoff coefficient for impervious cover)
   
   RvC	= 	0.25 (runoff coefficient for compacted cover)
   
   RvN	= 	0.00 (runoff coefficient for natural cover)
   
   %I  	= 	post-development percent of site in impervious cover
   
   %C	=    	post-development percent of site in compacted cover
   
   %N	=       post-development percent of site in natural cover
   
   SA	=	surface area in square feet,
   
   
   
   where, the surface area under a BMP shall be calculated as part of the
   impervious cover (%I); and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Employing each post-development land cover factored into the WQTv.

   524.6. A major regulated project in the AWDZ may achieve on-site treatment for
   WQTv with:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   On-site treatment designed to remove eighty percent (80%) of Total Suspended
   Solids;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   On-site retention; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Direct conveyance of stormwater from the site to an approved shared BMP with
   sufficient available treatment or retention capacity.

   524.7. An AWDZ site may achieve part of the WQTv by using off-site retention
   if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Site conditions make compliance technically infeasible, environmentally
   harmful, or of limited appropriateness in terms of impact on surrounding
   landowners or overall benefit to District waterbodies; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Department approves an application for relief from extraordinarily
   difficult site conditions.

   524.8. An AWDZ site that achieves a gallon of Off-Site Retention Volume (Offv)
   by using Stormwater Retention Credits (SRCs) certified for retention capacity
   located outside of the Anacostia watershed shall use 1.25 SRCs for that gallon
   of Offv.

   524.9. An AWDZ site shall obtain Department approval of an integrated
   pesticide management plan meeting the requirements of the Department’s
   Stormwater Management Guidebook.

   524.10. A major regulated project in the AWDZ shall achieve the required level
   of stormwater management using one or more of the following methods, in the
   following order of preference:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Vegetated BMPs and land covers designed to retain and beneficially use
   stormwater;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Where compatible with groundwater protection, non-vegetated infiltration BMPs;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Other low impact development practices;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Collection and use of stormwater for on-site irrigation and other purposes;
   and
   
   
   
   (e)	Other on-site BMPs or design methods approved by the Department.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
