                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORMWATER FEE DISCOUNT PROGRAM[COLON] ELIGIBILITY (§ 21-558)

558.1. The stormwater fee discount program shall apply to each retail District
   of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority (DC Water) customer that pays the
   stormwater fee described in § 556 of this chapter.

   558.2. The District Department of the Environment (Department) shall grant a
   stormwater fee discount to a customer that has installed an eligible Best
   Management Practice (BMP) on its property.

   558.3. A customer shall have the right to apply for the stormwater fee
   discount beginning on the effective date of this section; except that, for a
   Simplified Application, the customer shall have the right to apply no earlier
   than one (1) year after the effective date of this section.

   558.4. The Department shall calculate the discount to be applied to the
   customer’s DC Water bill:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   As a recurring credit to the stormwater fee billed pursuant to § 556;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Beginning to accrue with the billing period that follows the Department’s
   receipt of a complete discount application; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For the stormwater fee discount period which this chapter sets.

   558.5. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, if the customer
   installed an eligible BMP on its property before the effective date of this
   section, the discount shall begin to accrue as a Retroactive Discount on the
   later of:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The eligible BMP’s installation date; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   May 1, 2009.

   558.6. The Department shall calculate the Retroactive Discount that is to be
   applied to the customer’s DC Water bill as an offset to the stormwater fee
   until the Retroactive Discount is zero (0).

   558.7. To receive a Retroactive Discount, the customer must:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be otherwise eligible to receive a discount;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provide documentation verifying the date of installation;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Prove that the practice installed is still functional;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Allow the Department to inspect each BMP identified on the application; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Apply no later than one (1) year from the date on which the customer has the
   right to apply.

   558.8. A customer seeking a stormwater fee discount shall, in order to be
   eligible for the discount:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be current on all billed stormwater fee payments;
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit a complete application to the Department, in a manner prescribed by
   the Department; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Unless applying via a Simplified Application, accurately describe in the
   application the design and performance of the BMP by referencing or
   submitting:
   
   
   
   (1)	The final stormwater management plan approval notice issued by the
   Department; or
   
   
   
   (2)	All of the following:
   
   
   
   	(A)	Designs;
   
   
   
   	(B)	Technical specifications; and
   
   
   
   	(C)	Calculation of stormwater retention volume.

   558.9. A BMP shall, in order to be eligible for the discount:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be fully installed and functioning;
   
   
   
   (b)	Retain or infiltrate stormwater runoff;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Comply with all applicable construction codes;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be properly sized and located;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be designed and functioning in accordance with:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Applicable industry and professional standards and specifications in effect at
   the time of installation; and
   
   
   
   (2) 	The Department’s Stormwater Management Guidebook; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Be subject to inspection by the Department.

   558.10. As a requirement of continued eligibility, the customer shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Properly maintain the BMP so that it continues to function as designed and
   approved; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Continue to allow the Department access to the property to inspect the
   BMP.

   558.11. An approved discount shall expire on the first of:
   
   
   
   (a)	The end of the stormwater fee discount period provided in this chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	The property or BMP is no longer eligible for the discount; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The property is sold or otherwise transferred to a new owner; except that
   the new owner may direct the Department to use the technical information from
   the earlier approved application in support of the new discount.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10732 (July 19, 2013).
