                                  DC REGULATIONS

SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL[COLON] RESPONSIBLE PERSONNEL (ยง 21-547)

547.1. If a site involves a land disturbance of five thousand square feet
   (5,000 ft2) or more, the owner of the site and the site manager shall ensure
   that a responsible person is present or available as this section requires.

   547.2. A responsible person shall, while the site is in a phase involving
   land-disturbing activity, ensure that the activity complies with this chapter
   by:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Inspecting the site and its erosion and sediment control measures at least
   once biweekly and after a rainfall event to identify and remedy each potential
   or actual erosion problem;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Being available to respond to each potential or actual erosion problem
   identified by construction personnel; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Being available to speak on site with the Department to remedy each potential
   or actual erosion problem.

   547.3. A responsible person shall be:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Licensed in the District of Columbia as a civil or geotechnical engineer, a
   land surveyor, or architect; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Certified through a training program that the Department approves, including a
   course on erosion control provided by another jurisdiction or professional
   association.

   547.4. During construction, the responsible person shall have available on
   site proof of professional licensing or of successful completion of a
   Department-approved training program.

   547.5. A Department-approved training program shall cover the following
   topics, as demonstrated in the training syllabus:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The detrimental effects of sediment pollution to waterbodies;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The benefits of proper and effective erosion and sediment control
   implementation and maintenance;
   
   
   
   (c) 	The purpose and provisions of the District of Columbia erosion and
   sediment control laws, rules, and regulations;
   
   
   
   (d) 	A description of sediment as a pollutant;
   
   
   
   (e) 	The process of:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Erosion;
   
   
   
   (2) 	Sediment transport; and
   
   
   
   (3) 	Sediment deposition;
   
   
   
   (f) 	Proper implementation of erosion and sediment control;
   
   
   
   (g) 	Recognition and correction of improperly implemented erosion and sediment
   controls;
   
   
   
   (h) 	Proper maintenance of erosion and sediment controls; and
   
   
   
   (i) 	Responsibilities of supervisory and enforcement personnel.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
