                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORMWATER FEE DISCOUNT PROGRAM[COLON] DISCOUNT CALCULATION (§ 21-559)

559.1. No stormwater fee discount shall exceed the maximum allowable discount,
   which shall be fifty-five percent (55%) of the otherwise chargeable stormwater
   fee.

   559.2. The stormwater fee discount shall be calculated as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Determine, in gallons, the maximum volume of stormwater runoff retained by
   the eligible Best Management Practice (BMP) during a one and two-tenths-inch
   (1.2 in.) rainfall event;
   
   
   
   (b)	Divide the step “(a)” result by seven hundred ten and seventy-five
   hundredths gallons (710.75 gal.) per Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU) (the
   number of gallons of stormwater runoff per ERU that would be generated by a
   one and two-tenths-inch (1.2 in.) rainfall event);
   
   
   
   (c)	Multiply the step “(b)” result by the maximum allowable discount
   percentage; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Multiply the step “(c)” result by the stormwater charge per ERU
   specified in § 556.

   559.3. The calculated stormwater fee discount shall be applied to each
   month’s obligation of the stormwater fee.

   559.4. The stormwater fee discount will appear on the customer’s District of
   Columbia Water and Sewer Authority bill beginning with the billing period that
   follows the District Department of the Environment’s (Department’s)
   receipt and processing of a complete application, which processing will
   include transmittal to DC Water to incorporate the discount in the
   customer’s billing calculation.

   559.5. A customer shall have the right to apply with a Simplified Application
   for a property with a BMP, or multiple BMPs, that manages a cumulative
   impervious area of two thousand square feet (2,000 sq. ft.) or less.

   559.6. The Department shall calculate the discount eligible for use of the
   Simplified Application as follows:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Determine the total area that the BMP(s) manages, in square feet;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Divide the step “(a)” result by the original total area of impervious
   surface, and express the quotient as a percentage;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Multiply the step “(b)” result by the maximum allowable discount;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Multiply the percentage result from step “(c)” by the stormwater
   charge per ERU specified in § 556; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Add the product of 0.13 ERU per rain barrel installed multiplied by the
   stormwater charge per ERU specified in § 556.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10732 (July 19, 2013).
