                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT[COLON] RELIEF FROM EXTRAORDINARILY DIFFICULT SITE
CONDITIONS (§ 21-526)

526.1. The applicant may apply for relief from extraordinarily difficult site
   conditions if it is technically infeasible or environmentally harmful:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For a site to comply with the minimum on-site retention requirement (50% of
   Stormwater Retention Volume (SWRv); or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For an Anacostia Waterfront Development Zone (AWDZ) site to comply with any
   portion of its Water Quality Treatment Volume or SWRv on site, except that
   AWDZ sites may also apply based on the limited appropriateness of on-site
   stormwater management.

   526.2. The Department shall not provide relief unless the applicant proves
   that on-site compliance is technically infeasible or environmentally harmful,
   except that, for an AWDZ site, the Department may also consider the
   appropriateness of on-site compliance in terms of impact on surrounding
   landowners or overall benefit to District waterbodies.

   526.3. In order to support its case for relief, the applicant shall provide
   the following information demonstrating technical infeasibility or
   environmental harm:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Detailed explanation of each opportunity for on-site installation of a  Best
   Management Practice (BMP) that was considered and rejected, and the reasons
   for each rejection; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Evidence of site conditions limiting each opportunity for a BMP,
   including, as applicable:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Data on soil and groundwater contamination;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Data from percolation testing;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Documentation of the presence of utilities requiring impermeable protection or
   a setback;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Evidence of the applicability of a statute, regulation, court order,
   pre-existing covenant, or other restriction having the force of law;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Evidence that the installation of a retention BMP would conflict with the
   terms of a non-expired approval, applied for prior to the end of Transition
   Period Two A for a major land-disturbing activity or before the end of
   Transition Period Two B for a major substantial improvement activity, of a:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Concept review by the Historic Preservation Review Board;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Concept review by the Commission on Fine Arts;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Preliminary or final design submission by the National Capital Planning
   Commission;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Variance or special exception from the Board of Zoning Adjustment; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Large Tract Review by the District Office of Planning; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For a utility, evidence that a property owner on or under whose land the
   utility is conducting work objects to the installation of a BMP; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For a major substantial improvement activity, evidence that the structure
   cannot accommodate a BMP without significant alteration, because of a lack of
   available interior or exterior space or limited load-bearing capacity.

   526.4. An applicant for relief shall submit:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A complete application; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Proof of payment of the applicable fee.

   526.5. The Department shall not consider an incomplete application for relief;
   except that if an application is substantially complete, the Department may
   begin consideration.

   526.6. In determining whether to grant relief, the Department may consider:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The applicant’s submittal;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Other site-related information;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An alternative design;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Department’s Stormwater Management Guidebook;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Another BMP that complies with the requirements of this chapter; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Relevant scientific and technical literature, reports, guidance, and
   standards.

   526.7. After considering whether an application meets the requirements of this
   section, the Department may:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Require additional information;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Grant relief;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Grant relief, with conditions;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Deny relief; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Deny relief in part.

   526.8. No relief shall be granted unless, for the volume of relief granted,
   the Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) for the project provides for:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Use of off-site retention, with the Off-Site Retention Volume documented on
   the approved SWMP; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If the relief is from a minimum on-site retention requirement, treatment to
   remove eighty percent (80%) of total suspended solids.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 21 (January 1, 1988); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
