                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT[COLON] USE OF OFF-SITE RETENTION THROUGH THE IN-LIEU FEE
OR STORMWATER RETENTION CREDITS (§ 21-527)

527.1. A site that undergoes a major regulated project shall use off-site
   retention to achieve each gallon of its Off-Site Retention Volume (Offv).

   527.2. No person shall allow a portion of their Offv obligation to be
   unfulfilled for any period of time.

   527.3. A person shall achieve each gallon of Offv for each year by:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Using one (1) Stormwater Retention Credit (SRC); or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Paying the in-lieu fee to the Department.

   527.4. An obligation to use off-site retention for a gallon of Offv shall end
   if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   On-site retention of the gallon is achieved in compliance with a
   Department-approved Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP); or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Site redevelopment that follows a Department-approved SWMP occurs.

   527.5. No person shall use a SRC to achieve an Offv without obtaining the
   Department’s approval.

   527.6. Only the owner of a SRC may apply to the Department for approval to use
   a SRC to achieve an Offv.

   527.7. The Department shall track the use of off-site retention to achieve an
   Offv.

   527.8. An application to use a SRC to achieve an Offv shall be on a form that
   the Department provides and shall include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The unique serial number of the SRC; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Information about the site applying to use the SRC, including property
   location and stormwater management on the property.

   527.9. A person may use a Department-certified SRC without regard to the
   location within the District of the best management practice or land cover
   that generated the SRC, except as specified for an Anacostia Waterfront
   Development Zone site.

   527.10. The Department shall not approve an application to use a SRC to
   achieve an Offv if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The SRC has already been used to achieve one (1) year of Offv; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Department has retired the SRC.

   527.11. The one (1)-year lifespan of a SRC and of the in-lieu fee begins on
   the date that it is used to achieve an Offv.

   527.12. A site’s obligation to use off-site retention to achieve its Offv
   shall begin on the date of successful completion of the Department’s final
   construction inspection.

   527.13. For each gallon of required Offv, the property owner shall provide the
   Department at least four (4) weeks before the proposed usage date:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For use of a SRC, a completed application to use the SRC; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	For use of an in-lieu fee:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Notification of intent to use an in-lieu fee; and
   
   
   
   (2) 	Proof of payment of the fee.

   527.14. If a lapse in satisfaction of the obligation to achieve an Offv
   occurs, the Department shall declare the property owner out of compliance and:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Assess the property owner the in-lieu fee annually for each gallon of Offv;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Pro-rate the assessment to the period of lapsed compliance if the property
   owner comes into compliance; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Assess an administrative late fee.
   
   
   
   527.15 	Upon receipt of a notice related to noncompliance with an obligation
   to achieve an Offv, the property owner shall immediately:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Comply; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Pay fees and charges assessed.

   527.16. For a property owner who does not come into compliance within thirty
   (30) days after the date of the Department’s notice of a lapse in
   satisfaction of an Offv obligation and who owns an SRC that has not been used
   to achieve the Offv for another property, the Department may apply that SRC to
   the Offv obligation that is out of compliance.

   527.17. If the Department finds that an obligation has terminated or that its
   administration of payments would be improved, it may:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Pro-rate the amount of SRCs used and adjust accordingly in the Department’s
   tracking system; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Pro-rate the in-lieu fee and refund.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 21 (January 1, 1988); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
