                                  DC REGULATIONS

SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL[COLON] PLAN (§ 21-542)

542.1 	The soil erosion and sediment control plan shall not be approved
   without the date and signature of the Director or the Director’s designee
   stamped on the plan.

   542.2. The approved soil erosion and sediment control plan for a project shall
   be available on site for Department review for the entire period of
   construction during ordinary business hours.

   542.3. The Department shall approve a soil erosion and sediment control plan
   only if the Department determines the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The plan meets the requirements of this chapter and of the Department’s
   Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The applicant has paid each applicable fee; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The applicant has certified, in writing, that he or she will implement each
   control measure specified in the plan.

   542.4. The Department may, with respect to a soil erosion and sediment control
   plan:
   
   
   
   	(a) 	Reject a submission as incomplete;
   
   
   
   	(b)	Approve;
   
   
   
   	(c)	Deny;
   
   
   
   	(d)	Approve or deny in part; and
   
   
   
   	(e)	Require conditions or modifications.

   542.5. If a plan is disapproved, the Department shall notify the applicant in
   writing, providing the specific reasons for the disapproval of the plan.

   542.6. The Department may suggest modifications, terms, and conditions
   necessary to comply with the requirements of this chapter.

   542.7. A soil erosion and sediment control plan may cover multiple phases of a
   project.

   542.8. The applicant shall submit two (2) sets of prints of the soil erosion
   and sediment control plan to the Department for review.

   542.9. The applicant shall, at a minimum, provide the following information on
   the soil erosion and sediment control plan:
   
   
   
   	(a) 	A title that indicates the plan is a soil erosion and sediment control
   plan;
   
   
   
   (b) 	A project narrative;
   
   
   
   (c) 	The address of the property;
   
   
   
   (d)	The lot, square, or parcel numbers;
   
   
   
   (e) 	The name, address, and telephone number of:
   
   
   
   (1) 	The property owner;
   
   
   
   (2) 	The developer; and
   
   
   
   (3) 	The plan designer;
   
   
   
   (f)	For sites where work will be done on slopes in excess of fifteen percent
   (15%), the seal and signature of a professional engineer, licensed in the
   District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (g) 	A vicinity sketch indicating north arrow, scale, and other information
   necessary to locate the property;
   
   
   
   (h) 	One of the following horizontal scales of profile, unless otherwise
   approved:
   
   
   
   (1)	One inch equals ten feet (1 in. = 10 ft);
   
   
   
   (2) 	One inch equals twenty feet (1 in. = 20 ft);
   
   
   
   (3)	One inch equals thirty feet (1 in. = 30 ft);
   
   
   
   (4)	One inch equals forty feet (1 in. = 40 ft);
   
   
   
   (5)	One inch equals fifty feet (1 in. = 50 ft); or
   
   
   
   (6)	One inch equals eighty feet (1 in. = 80 ft);
   
   
   
   (i)	One of the following vertical scales of profile, unless otherwise
   approved:
   
   
   
   (1)	One inch equals two feet (1 in. = 2 ft);
   
   
   
   (2)	One inch equals four feet (1 in. = 4 ft);
   
   
   
   (3)	One inch equals five feet (1 in. = 5 ft); or
   
   
   
   (4)	One inch equals ten feet (1 in. = 10 ft);
   
   
   
   (j)	Existing features that may be relevant factors in the development of an
   erosion prevention plan, such as vegetation, wildlife habitat, water areas,
   and topsoil conditions;
   
   
   
   (k) 	The existing and proposed topography, including clear identification of
   all areas of slope greater than fifteen percent (15%);
   
   
   
   (l) 	The proposed grading and earth disturbance including:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Surface area involved;
   
   
   
   (2) 	Volume of spoil material;
   
   
   
   (3) 	Volume of borrow material; and
   
   
   
   (4) 	Limits of clearing and grading including limitation of mass clearing and
   grading whenever possible;
   
   
   
   (m) 	Storm drainage provisions, including:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Velocities and quantities of flow from a sediment control measure to an
   approved point of discharge; and
   
   
   
   (2) 	Site conditions around each point of surface water discharge from the
   site;
   
   
   
   (n) 	Erosion and sediment control provisions to minimize on-site erosion and
   prevent off-site sedimentation including:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Provisions specified to ensure land disturbance does not extend beyond
   the proposed area of disturbance;
   
   
   
   (2) 	Details of grading practices that will be used on the site;
   
   
   
   (3) 	Methods to minimize, to the extent practicable, off-site vehicle tracking
   of sediment and generation of dust; and
   
   
   
   (4) 	Design details for structural control measures, including size and
   location of each erosion and sediment control measure, including:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Use of a crushed stone dike on each access road that is above grade; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Use of a stabilized construction entrance for a construction project on each
   access road;
   
   
   
   (o) 	Details of each interim and permanent stabilization measure, including
   statement of intent to adhere to the following, by placing the statement on
   the soil erosion and sediment control plan:
   
   
   
   “Following initial land disturbance or re-disturbance, permanent or interim
   stabilization shall be completed within seven (7) calendar days for the
   surface of all perimeter controls, dikes, swales, ditches, perimeter slopes,
   and all slopes greater than three (3) horizontal to one (1) vertical (3:1);
   and fourteen (14) days for all other disturbed or graded areas on the project
   site. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to those areas which are
   shown on the plan and are being used for material storage other than
   stockpiling, or for those areas on which actual construction activities are
   being performed. Maintenance shall be performed as necessary so that
   stabilized areas continuously meet the appropriate requirements of the
   District of Columbia Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion and
   Sediment Control;”
   
   
   
   (p) 	The sequence of construction, including:
   
   
   
   (1) 	A description of the relationship between the implementation and
   maintenance of controls, including permanent and interim stabilization and the
   various stages or phases of earth disturbance and construction; and
   
   
   
   (2) 	A sequence for each of the following activities:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Clearing and grubbing for those areas necessary for installation of perimeter
   controls;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Construction of perimeter controls;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Remaining clearing and grubbing;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Road grading;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Grading for the remainder of the site;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Utility installation, including the use or blocking of storm drains after
   construction;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Final grading, landscaping, or stabilization; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Removal of controls;
   
   
   
   (q)	A general description of the predominant soil types on the site, as
   described by the appropriate soil survey information available from the United
   States Department of Agriculture National Resources Conservation Service;
   
   
   
   (r)	Recommendations for areas with unstable soils from a professional engineer
   licensed in the District of Columbia; and
   
   
   
   (s) 	A statement placed on the soil erosion and sediment control plan stating
   that the applicant shall contact the Department to schedule a preconstruction
   meeting before the commencement of a land-disturbing activity.

   542.10. After receiving notification that a soil erosion and sediment control
   plan meets the requirements for the Department’s approval, the applicant
   shall submit a final preconstruction application including:
   
   
   
   (a)	One (1) Mylar copy of the plan, except for a site that disturbs less than
   five thousand square feet (5,000 ft2) of land;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Seven (7) paper copies of the plan, except a site that disturbs less than five
   thousand square feet (5,000 ft2) of land shall submit four (4) paper copies;
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Proof that each applicable fee for Department services has been paid.

   542.11. The Department shall issue the approved copies of the soil erosion and
   sediment control plan after the applicant has submitted proof that each
   applicable fee for Department services has been paid.

   542.12. Following approval of the plan, the applicant shall request the
   Department’s approval at each of the following stages of construction:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Installation of perimeter erosion and sediment controls, but before
   proceeding with any other earth disturbance or grading; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Final stabilization of the site before the removal of erosion and
   sediment controls. Final stabilization means that all land-disturbing
   activities at the site have been completed and either of the following two (2)
   criteria are met:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A uniform (for example, evenly distributed, without large bare areas)
   perennial vegetative cover with a density of seventy percent (70%) of the
   native background vegetative cover for the area has been established on all
   unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures, or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Equivalent permanent stabilization measures (such as the use of riprap,
   gabions, or geotextiles) have been employed.

   542.13. A soil erosion and sediment control plan shall be designed in
   compliance with this chapter by a District-licensed:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Professional engineer;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Land surveyor; or
   
   
   
   (c) 	Architect.

   542.14. In support of a plan which it submits for approval, the applicant
   shall provide additional available information that the Department considers
   necessary to demonstrate compliance with erosion and sediment control
   requirements in this chapter.

   542.15. A copy of each approved plan shall be at the construction site from
   the date of commencement of the construction activities to the date of final
   stabilization and shall be made available for the Department’s inspection.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 1033 (July 28, 1978);
   incorporating text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 24 DCR 10522 (June 9,
   1978); 8 DCRR, Health Regulations (1965 Edition); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
