                                  DC REGULATIONS

SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL[COLON] REQUIREMENTS (§ 21-543)

543.1. Erosion and sediment control measures shall be those the Department
   approves.

   543.2. The Department shall maintain a copy of its Standards and
   Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control on its website and make a
   hard copy available for review at its offices.

   543.3. Soil erosion and sediment control measures shall prevent transportation
   of sediment from the site.

   543.4. Waterway crossing and stream bank protection measures designed and
   installed in compliance with the Department’s Standards and Specifications
   for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control shall be assumed to be adequate for that
   purpose.

   543.5. A best management practice shall be protected from sedimentation and
   other damage during construction to ensure proper post-construction operation.

   543.6. Erosion and sediment control measures shall be in place before and
   during land disturbance, except as otherwise specifically stated.

   543.7. Erosion and sediment control measures shall be in place to stabilize an
   exposed area as soon as practicable after construction activity has
   temporarily or permanently ceased but no later than fourteen (14) days
   following cessation, except that temporary or permanent stabilization shall be
   in place at the end of each day of underground utility work that is not
   contained within a larger development site.

   543.8. Permanent stabilization of streets and parking areas shall be with base
   course crushed stone or other Department-approved measures.

   543.9. Measures shall be implemented and corrective action taken, including as
   specified by the Department, to prevent the discharge to District sewers or
   District waterbodies of erodible material or waste material including those
   materials that have been transported off site.

   543.10. A site disturbing greater than five thousand square feet (5,000 ft2)
   of land shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Adhere to a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) that:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Department provides in its Stormwater Management Guidebook,
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Department approves as including the minimum measures in the
   Department-provided SWPPP; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Is required under the Construction General Permit issued by Region III of the
   United States Environmental Protection Agency; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Post a legible copy of the SWPPP on site.

   543.11. A person shall avoid work on a slope in excess of fifteen percent
   (15%), to the maximum extent practicable. Where avoidance is not practicable,
   the Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan for the site shall be designed,
   signed, and sealed by a professional engineer, licensed in the District of
   Columbia, and the applicant shall incorporate additional protection strategies
   which the Department may require in order to prevent erosion or transportation
   of sediments from the site.

   543.12. Except on an area that is undergoing construction, perimeter controls
   that disturb land, including dikes, swales, ditches, and perimeter slopes,
   shall be stabilized within one (1) week of initial land disturbance or
   redisturbance:
   
   
   
   (a)	On the surface of each disturbed area; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   On each associated slope greater than three (3) horizontal to one (1) vertical
   (3:1).

   543.13. Runoff from the site shall be controlled by either diverting or
   conveying the runoff through areas with erosion and sediment control measures,
   such as through the installation of lined conveyance ditches, channels, or
   checkdams.

   543.14. Critical area stabilization shall be applied to each cut and fill
   slope:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   That is equal to or steeper than 3:1;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   That is flatter than 3:1 if the Department determines that the soil
   characteristics require it; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To every cut and fill slope when construction is out-of-season for planting
   and until permanent protection can be provided.

   543.15. If the Department determines that a cut and fill slope is likely to
   result in erosion by stormwater of sediment from the site onto adjacent
   property or a nearby waterbody, then the cut and fill slope shall be protected
   against erosion by the use of structural diversions that are protected by
   vegetation or matting, in a frequency and manner that a geotechnical or civil
   engineer licensed in the District of Columbia has determined, based on site
   conditions, is sufficient to prevent erosion.

   543.16. Stockpiled material:
   
   
   
   (a)	That is actively being used during a phase of construction shall be
   protected against erosion by establishing and maintaining perimeter controls
   around the stockpile; and
   
   
   
   (b)	That is not being actively used or added to shall be stabilized with
   mulch, temporary vegetation, hydro-seed or plastic within fifteen (15)
   calendar days after its last use or addition.

   543.17. Sediment traps or basins and other erosion and sediment controls shall
   be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Installed no later than the first phase of land grading;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Installed as soon as new site-related runoff is detected; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	Employed at all times to protect inlets or storm sewers below
   silt-producing areas.

   543.18. Debris basins, diversions, waterways, and related structures shall be
   seeded and mulched, or have sod or a stabilization blanket installed
   immediately after they are built.

   543.19. Construction site access measures to minimize off-site vehicle
   tracking shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be installed no later than the first day of construction;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Stabilize each construction entrance;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Include each additional measure required to keep sediment from being:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Tracked, or otherwise carried, onto public streets by construction
   vehicles; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Washed into a storm drain or waterway; and
   
   
   
   		(d)	Comply with all other Department requirements.

   543.20. Off-site accumulations of sediment:
   
   
   
   (a)	Shall be removed daily during construction; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Shall be removed immediately if the Department so requires after an
   inspection.

   543.21. Maintenance shall be performed to prevent stabilized areas from
   becoming unstabilized.

   543.22. A sign that notifies the public to contact the Department in the event
   of erosion or other pollution shall be prominently posted on every site
   subject to this chapter, and the sign shall:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Be in plain view of and readable by the public at a distance of twelve
   feet (12 ft);
   
   
   
   (b) 	Be placed at each entrance to the site or as directed by the Department;
   and
   
   
   
   (c) 	Provide contact information identified by the Department, including
   telephone numbers and email address.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 1033 (July 28, 1978);
   incorporating text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 24 DCR 10522 (June 9,
   1978); 8 DCRR, Health Regulations (1965 Edition); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10640 (July 19, 2013).
