                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROVIDER QUALIFICATIONS (ยง 29-4903)

4903.1. Each Provider shall comply with the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Have the ability to access all pertinent records concerning the
   client&#8217;s needs for services, including records of CFSA;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have established referral systems and demonstrated linkages and referral
   ability with community resources required by the target population;
   
   
   
   (c)	Have a minimum of one year experience in providing all core elements of
   rehabilitation services for children and families;
   
   
   
   (d)	Have an administrative capacity to ensure quality of services in
   accordance with District and federal requirements;
   
   
   
   (e)	Have a financial management capacity and system that provides
   documentation of services and costs, in accordance with OMB Circular A-87
   principles;
   
   
   
   (f)	Have the capacity to document and maintain individual case records in
   accordance with District and federal requirements; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Have a demonstrated ability to comply with all District and federal laws
   and rules governing the participation of providers in the District of Columbia
   Medicaid Program, including the ability to meet all District and federal
   requirements for documentation, billing and audits.

   4903.2. Each Provider shall comply with the requirements set forth in the
   Youth Residential Facilities Licensure Act of 1986, effective August 13, 1986
   (D.C. Law 6-139; D.C. Code ยง 3-801 et seq.), and implementing rules.

   4903.3. Each Provider shall comply with all applicable provisions of District
   and federal law and rules pertaining to Title XIX of the Social Security Act,
   and all District and federal law and rules applicable to the service or
   activity provided pursuant to these rules.

   4903.4. Each Provider shall establish and adhere to policies and procedures
   for selecting and hiring staff, including, but not limited to requiring:
   
   
   
   (a)	Evidence of licensure, certification or registration as applicable and as
   required by the job being performed;
   
   
   
   (b)	For unlicensed staff, evidence of completion of an appropriate degree,
   training program or credentials;
   
   
   
   (c)	Appropriate reference and background checks;
   
   
   
   (d)	Evidence of completion of all communicable disease testing and
   immunizations as required by District laws and rules, to include TB skin tests
   and Hepatitis B; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A mechanism for ongoing monitoring of staff licensure, certification or
   registration, such as an annual confirmation process concurrent with staff
   performance evaluations which includes repeats of screening checks outlined
   above as appropriate.
   
   
   
   In accordance with section 1902(a)(3) of the Social Security Act, CFSA shall
   ensure that each client has free choice of qualified providers.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 8872 (September 21, 2001)
   [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 247 (January 11,
   2002).
