                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROGRAM SERVICES (ยง 29-4902)

4902.1. Rehab services shall include the following services:
   
   
   
   (a)	Evaluation, assessment and Plan of Care development;
   
   
   
   (b)	Individual and group psychotherapy and counseling;
   
   
   
   (c)	Medical evaluations, including developmental, psychological,
   speech/language, occupational therapy and physical therapy assessments;
   
   
   
   (d)	Crisis intervention;
   
   
   
   (e)	Health service coordination through activities to assist and enable the
   client to receive services authorized in the Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   (f)	Medication management to assist the client or the client&#8217;s caregiver
   in understanding and adhering to a prescribed pharmacological routine;
   
   
   
   (g)	Behavior management to assist the client who has a behavior problem in
   understanding the consequences of inappropriate behavior and to teach and
   reinforce appropriate behavior; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Plan of Care reassessment and revision.

   4902.2. Each evaluation and assessment provided pursuant to ยง 4902.1(a) shall
   meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be based on an informed clinical opinion; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Include an evaluation of the client&#8217;s cognitive, social, emotional
   and adaptive development.

   4902.3. Healthcare professionals qualified to perform the evaluation and
   assessment and participate in the development and reassessment of the Plan of
   Care are as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Psychiatrist;
   
   
   
   (b)	Psychologist;
   
   
   
   (c)	Licensed Professional Counselor;
   
   
   
   (d)	Licenced Independent Clinical Social Worker (LICSW);
   
   
   
   (e)	Advanced Practiced Registered Nurse; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Licensed Graduate Social Worker under the supervision of a psychiatrist,
   psychologist or LICSW.

   4902.4. The Plan of Care shall be developed by a multi-disciplinary team in
   consultation with the client and his or her caregiver. Each Plan of Care shall
   be signed and dated by a psychiatrist and contain the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A written plan that contains and is based on the information derived from
   the evaluation and assessment;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement of the client&#8217;s present level of functioning in the
   domains examined in the evaluation and assessment;
   
   
   
   (c)	Treatment objectives in measurable terms, including discharge planning,
   long and short term goals with appropriate timelines;
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement of the client&#8217;s specific complaints, including the
   limitations and abilities, specific problems and specific needs of the
   patients;
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement of the specific services and supports necessary to meet the
   unique needs of the client and the setting in which the services are to be
   delivered; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Names and titles of persons responsible for implementing the Plan of Care.

   4902.5. Individual psychotherapy and counseling shall meet following
   requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be provided in a face-to-face clinical intervention with an appropriate
   health care professional acting within the scope of their practice;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be provided in accordance with the Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   (c)	Be provided at a ratio of one therapist to one client; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Be provided at a minimum of 30 minutes per session.

   4902.6. Group psychotherapy and counseling shall meet the following
   requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be provided in a face-to-face clinical intervention with an appropriate
   health care professional acting within the scope of their practice;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be provided in accordance with the Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   (c)	Be provided at a ratio of one therapist to no more than 12 clients; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Be provided at a minimum of 30 minutes per session.

   4902.7. Healthcare professionals qualified to perform individual and group
   counseling are as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Psychiatrist;
   
   
   
   (b)	Psychologist;
   
   
   
   (c)	Licensed Professional Counselor;
   
   
   
   (d)	Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker;
   
   
   
   (e)	Licensed Graduate Social Worker under the supervision of a psychiatrist,
   psychologist or LICSW; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Advanced Practice Registered Nurse who is certified by the American Nurses
   Association to practice psychotherapy.

   4902.8. Healthcare professionals qualified to perform psychotherapy are as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Psychiatrist;
   
   
   
   (b)	Psychologist;
   
   
   
   (c)	Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker;
   
   
   
   (d)	Licensed Graduate Social Worker under the supervision of a psychiatrist,
   psychologist or LICSW; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Advanced Practice Registered Nurse who is certified by the American Nurses
   Association to practice psychotherapy.

   4902.9. Each medical evaluation shall be provided by a licensed health care
   professional acting within the scope of his or her practice, who has a
   contract with CFSA to provide medical evaluation services. Each medical
   evaluation shall meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be provided in a face-to-face clinical intervention; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Ensure that the client is assessed in all areas relating to a suspected
   disability including, when appropriate, health, vision, hearing, dental,
   social and emotional status, general intelligence, communicative status and
   motor abilities.

   4902.10. Each medical evaluation shall be used in developing or modifying the
   Plan of Care.

   4902.11. Reimbursement for a medical evaluation provided in a residential
   setting shall be allowed only when provided by a licensed health care
   professional who is not an employee of the residential facility and when
   necessary to supplement the capabilities of the facility&#8217;s staff.

   4902.12. Crisis intervention shall be provided as clinically appropriate by a
   psychiatrist, psychologist, licensed professional counselor or licensed
   independent clinical social worker or licensed graduate social worker under
   the supervision of a psychiatrist, psychologist or LICSW for the purpose of:
   
   
   
   (a)	Reducing the client&#8217;s acute psychiatric and emotional symptoms;
   
   
   
   (b)	Reducing the likelihood of the client harming himself or others; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Assisting the client in returning to his or her pre-crisis level of
   functioning.

   4902.13. Crisis intervention shall be provided at a ratio of one therapist to
   one client.

   4902.14. Health service coordination shall include the following activities:
   
   
   
   (a)	Coordinating the performance of evaluations and assessments;
   
   
   
   (b)	Facilitating and participating in the development, review and evaluation
   of the Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   (c)	Assisting and identifying available service providers; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Coordinating the provision of services with health care pracritioners.

   4902.15. Health service coordination shall be provided by a licensed
   independent clinical social worker or registered nurse.

   4902.16. Medication management shall be reimbursed only when provided by a
   lphysician or registered nurse who is authorized by the Provider to administer
   the Plan of Care. Medication management shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Educating the client/caregiver regarding the benefits and side effects of
   the medication;
   
   
   
   (b)	Instructing and assisting the client/caregiver in the self-administration
   of the medication;
   
   
   
   (c)	Reviewing with the client/caregiver the symptomatology of the illness; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Observing the client&#8217;s vital signs and level of performance to
   ensure that adverse side effects are minimized.

   4902.17. Behavior management shall be reimbursed only when provided by a
   psychiatrist, psychologist, licensed professional counselor, advanced practice
   registered nurse, licensed independent clinical social worker or licensed
   graduate social worker under the supervision of a psychiatrist, psychologist
   or LICSW who is authorized by the Provider to administer the Plan of Care.
   Behavior management shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Individual and group therapeutic interventions to improve or maintain the
   client&#8217;s skills needed to interact safely and securely with other
   persons;
   
   
   
   (b)	Symptom management to minimize the negative side effects of psychiatric or
   emotional symptoms which interfere with the client&#8217;s personal
   development and community integration; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Supportive counseling with the client to develop, restore, manage and
   maintain the client&#8217;s mental or emotional growth.

   4902.18. The Plan of Care reassessment and revision shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	A thorough review of the initial Plan of Care and any subsequent
   revisions;
   
   
   
   (b)	A review of any current evaluations or information pertaining to the
   client&#8217;s condition;
   
   
   
   (c)	A review of services authorized and delivered in the current Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   (d)	A determination of progress made or deficiencies arising from the current
   Plan of Care; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A re-authorization of current services that are determined to be
   beneficial, a discontinuation of services appearing to provide little or no
   benefit, and authorization of any additional services needed to meet the
   client&#8217;s physical, mental or emotional needs.

   4902.19. Each Plan of Care shall be reassessed and revised, at least once
   every six months by the multi-disciplinary team. The health care professions
   responsible for the client&#8217;s case shall conduct an on-going review of
   the Plan of Care.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 8872 (September 21, 2001)
   [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 247 (January 11,
   2002).
