                                  DC REGULATIONS

FILING OF COMPLAINTS (§ 4-705)

705.1. Any person or organization may file with the Office a complaint of a
   violation of the provisions of the Act, including a complaint of general
   discrimination, unrelated to a specific person or instance. If a complainant
   lacks capacity, the complaint may be filed on his or her behalf by a person
   with an interest in the welfare of the complainant.

   705.2. The complaint shall be in writing on a form obtained from the Office,
   and can be filed online through the Office’s website
   (http://www.ohr.dc.gov), via fax, or in-person. Although the date of the
   online filing will constitute the filing date for the complaint, the finalized
   complaint shall be signed and verified before a notary public or other person
   duly authorized to administer oaths and take acknowledgements.  The Office
   shall furnish notary public service without charge.

   705.3. The Director may initiate a complaint whenever the Director has reason
   to believe that any person has committed an unlawful discriminatory practice. 
   A complaint initiated by the Director shall be signed by the Director.

   705.4. A complaint alleging a discriminatory practice shall contain the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The full name and address of the complainant(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	The full name and address of the respondent(s);
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement of the alleged unlawful discriminatory practice(s) and a
   statement of the particulars;
   
   
   
   (d)	The date(s) of the alleged unlawful discriminatory practice, and if the
   alleged unlawful discriminatory practice is of a continuing nature, the dates
   between which the continuing acts of discrimination are alleged to have
   occurred; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement describing any other action, civil, criminal, or
   administrative in nature, instituted in any other forum or agency based on the
   same unlawful discriminatory practice as is alleged in the complaint.

   705.5. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 705.4, a complaint shall be deemed
   sufficient when the Office receives from the person making the charge a
   written statement sufficiently precise to identify the parties, and to
   describe generally the action or practice complained of.

   705.6. A notarized complaint shall be filed with the Office, either in person,
   and through US Postal Service. The Office shall accommodate a disabled person
   who wishes to file a complaint or who wishes to make a personal appearance at
   the Office when filing a complaint. Accommodations may include, but shall not
   be limited to, a personal representative making an appearance on behalf of a
   disabled complainant, or an Office representative delivering a complaint to a
   complainant for signature and notarization.

   705.7. The Director shall establish and maintain a complaint file containing
   all documents pertinent to each case. The complaint file shall contain, at a
   minimum, the following documents as appropriate to the individual case:
   
   
   
   (a)	The complaint;
   
   
   
   (b)	The reply to data request;
   
   
   
   (c)	Amendment(s) to the complaint;
   
   
   
   (d)	The respondent’s reply to the complaint and any amendments;
   
   
   
   (e)	The complainant’s statement of withdrawal;
   
   
   
   (f)	The investigator’s summary or findings of fact and recommendations;
   
   
   
   (g)	The extended processing summary and recommendations;
   
   
   
   (h)	The Director’s Letter of Determination (LOD);
   
   
   
   (i)	The conciliation agreement;
   
   
   
   (j)	Letter of certification to the Commission; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Letter of dismissal.
   
   
   
   If the Office determines that a complainant is filing what are determined to
   be frivolous complaints, which may include filing an unreasonable number of
   complaints during a given time, it may resolve the complaint in accordance
   with OHR Intake Guidelines.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 007324 (September 4, 2009).
