                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE DISMISSALS (§ 4-708)

708.1. A case shall be terminated without prejudice if the complainant submits
   a written request to withdraw the complaint, or for the following
   administrative reasons:
   
   
   
   (a)	The complainant is absent and has failed to contact the Office or cannot
   be contacted by the Office. The Office shall attempt to contact the
   complainant either by telephone, e-mail, or mail addressed to the
   complainant’s address of record. Inability to contact by mail shall consist
   of mailing at least one (1) regularly mailed letter or e-mail;
   
   
   
   (b)	The complainant fails to proceed and the Office has unsuccessfully
   attempted to contact the complainant by telephone, e-mail, or mail, and the
   complainant has failed to contact the Office within thirty (30) days of the
   date the first letter was mailed;
   
   
   
   (c)	The complainant fails to state a claim for which relief can be granted
   under the Act;
   
   
   
   (d)	The respondent no longer exists as a result of a court action (bankruptcy
   or dissolution); and
   
   
   
   (e)	After preliminary investigation, the Director determines that the Office
   lacks jurisdiction over the respondent.

   708.2. An order dismissing a complaint for administrative reasons shall be in
   writing and served on the parties, stating the reasons for the dismissal.

   708.3. A complainant may request that a complaint previously closed for
   administrative reasons or voluntarily withdrawn be reopened; provided, that
   the complainant submits a written request within thirty (30) days of receipt
   of the order dismissing the complaint, stating specifically the reasons why
   the complaint should be reopened.

   708.4. The Director, upon receipt of a request to reopen a complaint, may,
   within his or her discretion, reopen the case for good reasons or in the
   interest of justice provided that no determination has previously been made on
   the merits of the case.

   708.5. The decision of the Director to reopen a complaint shall be served on
   all parties.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 007324 (September 4, 2009).
