                                  DC REGULATIONS

FACT-FINDING CONFERENCE (§ 4-713)

713.1. Within fifteen (15) calendar days of the filing of a complaint, the
   Office shall serve a notice of the complaint and a copy of the complaint on
   the respondent.

   713.2. If considered appropriate, the Director or the Director’s designee
   shall schedule a fact-finding conference within twenty (20) calendar days of
   the date that a complaint is filed.

   713.3. The Director or the Director’s designee shall, at least seven (7)
   calendar days prior to the fact-finding conference, do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Inform the parties of the date of the fact-finding conference; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Inform the parties of their responsibility to provide the Director or the
   Director’s designee with names of witnesses who will provide information at
   the fact-finding conference.

   713.4. If a witness for a party is unable to attend the fact-finding
   conference, that party may request the witness to submit a notarized
   statement.  The party shall deliver the statement to the Office no later than
   two (2) calendar days before the scheduled date of the fact-finding
   conference.

   713.5. The purpose of the fact-finding conference shall be to provide for the
   rapid processing of charges that are narrowly defined and limited to
   allegations of direct harm to the charging party.

   713.6. A record of the fact-finding conference shall be made by a recording
   device. If a settlement negotiation is initiated during the conference, the
   settlement discussions shall be confidential and off the record.

   713.7. For purposes of this section, a “fact-finding conference” is an
   informal, investigative technique, not an adversary proceeding.

   713.8. Each allegation of the charge shall be closely examined and fully
   discussed.  Each party shall be allowed ample time to present and defend his
   or her position.

   713.9. If counsel for the respondent or the complainant is present, counsel
   shall be limited to an advisory role and will not be permitted to speak for
   their clients.  For cross-examination purposes, counsel may ask questions
   through the conference leader.

   713.10. The fact-finding conference may be waived or suspended when it becomes
   apparent to the Director or the Director’s designee that the remedy sought
   by the complainant may be achieved through a negotiated settlement.

   713.11. A request for rescheduling a fact-finding conference shall be granted
   at the discretion of the Director or the Director’s designee.  A scheduled
   court appearance of counsel for either party, illness of either party, or
   other extenuating circumstances are factors that shall be considered in
   rescheduling a fact-finding conference.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 007324 (September 4, 2009).
