                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECONSIDERATION (§ 4-720)

720.1. A complainant seeking reconsideration of a dismissal under § 719.1, or
   a respondent seeking reconsideration under § 716.3, shall submit an
   application for reconsideration to the Director in writing, stating
   specifically the grounds upon which the request for reconsideration is based.
   The grounds shall be limited to misapplication of law, material misstatement
   of fact, or discovery of evidence not available during the investigation.

   720.2. If the request is not based on one of the grounds cited in § 720.1, or
   is not timely filed, the Director shall reject the application for
   reconsideration. A request for reconsideration shall be filed with the
   Director’s office, in writing, within fifteen (15) calendar days from the
   receipt of the Director’s LOD.

   720.3. Upon receipt of an application for reconsideration, the Director shall
   send letters acknowledging receipt of the application to both the complainant
   and the respondent. The respondent shall also receive a copy of the grounds
   upon which the complainant bases the request for reconsideration, and shall be
   given ten (10) calendar days from receipt of the information to file a
   response.

   720.4. If, after review of a timely-filed application for reconsideration and
   the response thereto, the Director concludes that the complainant has not
   presented evidence that would warrant change, modification, or reversal of the
   prior dismissal, the Director shall affirm the original no probable cause
   finding.

   720.5. If the Director concludes that the complainant has provided sufficient
   evidence to raise a genuine issue of law or fact, the complaint shall be
   reopened for further investigation.

   720.6. If the respondent adequately refutes the allegations presented in the
   application for reconsideration, the prior dismissal shall be affirmed and the
   parties notified.

   720.7. Where the complainant raises issues of material misstatement of fact or
   discovery of evidence not available during the investigation, and if the
   respondent fails to respond within the required time period or fails
   adequately to refute the allegations in the application for reconsideration,
   the Director shall reopen the complaint for further investigation.

   720.8. If, at the end of further investigation and after considering the
   record as a whole, the Director concludes that the complainant has not
   presented sufficient evidence to warrant a change of the prior dismissal, the
   prior dismissal shall be affirmed, and the parties notified in writing.

   720.9. If the Director determines, after further investigation, that a prior
   dismissal should be reversed, the Director shall find probable cause to credit
   the complaint, and the parties shall be served with a detailed written basis
   for the reversal and afforded an opportunity to conciliate.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 007324 (September 4, 2009).
