                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 14-2699)

2699.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Comprehensive seed money loan &#8211; a non-interest-bearing loan to a tenant
   association, due at the time of settlement, to help defray the up-front costs
   related to the acquisition and rehabilitation of its building.
   
   
   
   DHCD &#8211; District of Columbia Department of Housing and Community
   Development.
   
   
   
   Gross household income &#8211; includes the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Head of household’s stable income from primary employment, public
   assistance, and pensions;
   
   
   
   (b)	Spouse’s earnings, and the earnings of other household members if their
   employment is a definite characteristic of family life and likely to continue
   for a substantial period of time;
   
   
   
   (c)	Other income regularly received by the applicant or his or her family from
   any source; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Net income from real estate and other net business income.
   
   
   
   Improvement plan &#8211; a written agreement developed with the assistance of
   the DHCD Apartment Improvement Program staff that provides for the continued
   use of the building by lower-income residents. The agreement is among the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A building’s owner;
   
   
   
   (b)	The tenants;
   
   
   
   (c)	A lender; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The District of Columbia
   
   
   
   Initial retainer seed money loan &#8211; a short-term non-interest-bearing
   loan to a tenant association limited to assistance in the payment of initial
   retainer fees for the services of an organizer, appraiser, lawyer, architect,
   engineer, and general developer/consultant.
   
   
   
   Lower income &#8211; as defined in the Housing and Community Development Act
   of 1974, family income not exceeding eighty percent (80%) of the median family
   income of the Washington Metropolitan Area, as determined by the Secretary of
   the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, with adjustments for
   family size, or such other limits as may be established by the Secretary on
   the basis of findings that variations are necessary because of construction
   costs, unusually high or low incomes, or other factors.
   
   
   
   Low-yield cooperative &#8211; a cooperative where the transfer value of the
   membership is limited by the bylaws of the corporation to the sum of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The membership under the occupancy agreement or its equivalent (i.e.,
   initial price of the proprietary lease, or share cost) at an accrued rate of
   return set by the Board of Directors not to exceed a ten percent (10%)
   increase (compounded annually); PLUS
   
   
   
   (b)	The value, as determined by the Board of Directors, of any improvements
   installed at the expense of the member with prior approval of the Board, under
   a valuation formula that provides for reimbursement in an amount not to exceed
   the initial cost of the improvements; MINUS
   
   
   
   (c)	The cost or estimated cost of all deferred maintenance repairs as is
   deemed necessary by the corporation to place the dwelling unit in suitable
   condition for another occupant.
   
   
   
   Tenant association &#8211; an organization of tenants with members who are
   tenants of the housing accommodation to be converted and who occupy units
   constituting more than fifty percent (50%) of the occupied rental units.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 27 DCR 4606-4607 (October 17,
   1980).
