                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIFIC ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS (§ 14-2602)

2602.1. Tenant associations in buildings assisted by the DHCD Apartment
   Improvement Program shall be eligible for seed money loans if conversion to a
   cooperative is part of an agreed upon improvement plan for the building.

   2602.2. Tenant associations in buildings not assisted by the DHCD Apartment
   Improvement Program shall be eligible if the following conditions are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	All Seed Money Loan applications shall include a petition of tenant
   interest signed by a majority of the heads of households who are members of
   the tenant association in residence on the first (1st) day of the month in
   which the application is filed. The petition shall include a statement of
   tenants’ interest in participating in a cooperative conversion of their
   building if adequate funding can be secured. Each tenant who signs the
   petition shall agree to provide income and other household information
   necessary for completion of a tenant profile and make his or her apartment
   available for inspectors during a building condition survey.
   
   
   
   (b)	A tenant association which has submitted a letter of interest to an owner
   and to the Rental Accommodations Office pursuant to a § 602(b) (or its
   successor) notice of intent to sell, may submit a copy of the letter instead
   of a petition.
   
   
   
   (c)	All Seed Money Loan applications shall be accompanied by a tenant profile
   containing information on household income, size, and composition; the asking
   price; an estimate of the fee to prepare a rehabilitation cost estimate based
   on a walk-through survey of the building by an architect and/or engineer; and
   income and expense statements for the building during the past three (3) years
   (if available).

   2602.3. In addition to meeting the requirements of § 2602.2, applications for
   Comprehensive Seed Money Loans shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A rehabilitation cost estimate based on at least a walk-through survey;
   and
   
   
   
   (b)	A technical needs assessment.

   2602.4. The technical needs assessment required under § 2602.3(b) shall
   identify the types of technical assistance and related fees and expenses
   necessary to produce a market and conversion analysis suitable for
   presentation to potential lending institutions. (For example, such an analysis
   could include a neighborhood analysis, comparable project(s) analysis,
   property evaluation report, land value analysis, refined rehabilitation costs,
   “as is” valuation, pro forma conversion option(s) cost analysis, expense
   analysis, operating budgets (past and projected), unit pricing schedule, unit
   floor plans, and cost of ownership analysis.)
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 27 DCR 4606, 4608-4609
   (October 17, 1980).
