                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUESTS FOR TERMINATION OF UTILITY SERVICE (§ 15-415)

415.1. No utility shall terminate service to any master-metered apartment
   building subject to this chapter at the request of any person, except by
   §§401-410, or at the direction of the Mayor or his or her representative
   pursuant to §415.3, unless the following conditions are satisfied: owner
   unless the following conditions are satisfied:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Public Service Commission shall find that utility services provided by
   the utility will be provided by other means with no lapse in service. Before
   making a finding, the Public Service Commission shall require the owner,
   agent, lessor, or manager to do the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Specify the source of the new utility service;
   
   
   
   (2)	Specify the date when the new service will begin; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Show evidence of a legally binding commitment by the new supplier to
   provide the utility service; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The Public Service Commission shall first make a finding that no units
   within the apartment building are not lawfully occupied by tenants. As a basis
   for this finding, the Public Service Commission shall require the following
   conditions be satisfied:
   
   
   
   (1)	A notarized affidavit pursuant to §415.2 executed by the owner, agent,
   lessor, or manager of the apartment building; and
   
   
   
   (2)	No tenant provides evidence which establishes the lawfulness of his or her
   occupancy; and
   
   
   
   (3)	The Commission&#8217;s staff shall perform an on-site inspection and find
   that the premises are vacant or unlawfully occupied.

   415.2. For the purposes of §415.1(b)(1), the owner or other legally
   authorized person shall submit to the Commission a notarized statement which
   shall contain the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and legal authority of the person requesting termination of the
   utility service;
   
   
   
   (b)	The basis of the request for termination of the utility service;
   
   
   
   (c)	That no unit is lawfully occupied;
   
   
   
   (d)	That discloses the presence of any unlawful occupants, states the nature
   and term of their occupancy, and presents all available evidence supporting
   the allegation of unlawful occupancy, including but not limited to, final
   orders of the Landlord and Tenant Division of the District of Columbia
   Superior Court or the Rental Accommodations and Conversion Division of the
   Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs;
   
   
   
   (e)	That a notice, as approved by the Public Service Commission, has been
   prominently displayed in an area of the apartment building, which is readily
   accessible to all tenants informing all tenants with a claim of lawful
   occupancy to notify the Public Service Commission within ten (10) days of the
   posting date to establish the nature of their claim to occupancy, and attaches
   a copy of that notice; and
   
   
   
   (f)	That a copy of the notice was served on each occupant of the apartment
   building no less than ten (10) days prior to the date that utility service is
   to be terminated.

   415.3. Whenever termination of utility service is requested at the direction
   of the Mayor or his or her representative in an emergency situation, because
   of imminent treat to life or property, or for other good cause which threatens
   the public welfare, the Mayor or his or her representative may cause service
   to be terminated because of the existence of an emergency situation as
   determined by the Mayor or his or her representative.

   415.4. The Mayor or his or her representative shall notify the Public Service
   Commission of the termination within three (3) days of the termination
   excluding weekends and legal holidays, pursuant to §§415.2(a)-(d).

   415.5. If the request to the utility to terminate service is not in writing,
   the Mayor or his or her representative shall confirm the request in writing
   three (3) days of the termination excluding weekends and legal holidays.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 7124 (November 9, 1990)
   superseding Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 3329, 3338 (July 24, 1981).
