                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE OF OPTION SELECTED (ยง 15-405)

405.1. After the utility has received all of the tenants&#8217; Preliminary
   Election Postcards or after the expiration of the ten (10) day waiting period
   (whichever comes first), the utility shall advise all tenants of the option
   selected by the majority of the tenants for payment of utility service to the
   building.

   405.2. If no option is selected by a majority, the option selected by a
   plurality of the tenants shall prevail.

   405.3. Any option selected shall be practicable under this chapter.

   405.4. If the utility company does not find the selected option to be
   practicable, it shall state its reasons in the notice and advise the tenants
   of their right to appeal the decision to the Commission within ten (10)
   working days.

   405.5. Where sixty percent (60%) or more of the tenants have elected the
   individual metering option, the utility company shall immediately begin, at
   its own expense, the preparation of a Statement of Practicability for the
   master-metered building in question.

   405.6. When the Statement of Practicability has been prepared, the utility
   company shall send to each tenant in the building a notice detailing the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The determination made by the utility company whether it is practicable to
   offer tenants the opportunity to assume prospective service in their own name,
   the basis of that determination, and the nature of the service which could be
   offered. If the utility company has determined that the installation of
   individual meters is feasible, the notice shall include the condition that
   individual metering shall only be available if within ten (10) days from the
   delivery of this Statement of Practicability, all of the tenants elect to have
   individual meters installed;
   
   
   
   (b)	The cost to the tenant of installing an individual meter, if feasible, and
   the basis of the cost determination; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The tenant&#8217;s right to appeal the utility company&#8217;s
   determination of practicability to the Public Service Commission.

   405.7. The notice shall first be approved by the Public Service Commission and
   shall be sent by registered mail or hand-delivered to each apartment unit
   where a tenant&#8217;s name is known. The notice shall also be sent to all
   tenants by regular mail and published in a newspaper of general circulation in
   the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 3329, 3335 (July 24, 1981).
