                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE OF TENANTS&#8217; RIGHTS AND OPTIONS (§ 15-402)

402.1. At least twenty-one (21) days prior to terminating service, a utility
   company shall send, by registered mail, to each tenant whose name is made
   known to the utility company a Notice of Tenants&#8217; Rights and Options.
   The notice shall also be sent to all tenants by regular mail. The notice shall
   contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A general fact sheet giving the reason for the proposed change in billing,
   the owner&#8217;s name, a description of the following options available to
   tenants for the provision of utility service:
   
   
   
   (1)	Individual metering;
   
   
   
   (2)	Collective payment by a tenant&#8217;s association;
   
   
   
   (3)	Individual payment based on a fair and equitable allocation of the total
   bill; and
   
   
   
   (4)	The appointment of a receiver;
   
   
   
   (b)	The telephone number and address of the utility, the name of the person or
   persons handling these matters and an invitation to contact the utility for
   more information;
   
   
   
   (c)	The date, time and place for a meeting between the tenants and a field
   representative from the utility to discuss the available alternatives. With
   respect to this meeting only, a notice shall be sent to the District agency
   which is authorized to represent citizens in utility matters;
   
   
   
   (d)	The statement that the tenant has the right to deduct all future payments
   made by the tenant for utility services from rent owed as provided by §3 of
   D.C. Law 3-94; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A Preliminary Election Card, printed on a postage paid postcard, to be
   filled out by the tenant indicating the tenant&#8217;s preference among the
   following options:
   
   
   
   (1)	Individual metering, if practicable;
   
   
   
   (2)	Collective payment by a tenants&#8217; association, if practicable;
   
   
   
   (3)	Individual payment based on a fair and equitable allocation of the total
   bill; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Appointment of a receiver.

   402.2. For the purposes of §402.1(a)(3), the utility company shall state its
   proposal for a fair and equitable division of the utility bill and the
   proposed percentage to be paid by each tenant.

   402.3. For the purposes of §402.1(e)(1), the individual metering option shall
   clearly state the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	This option is only a possibility if sixty percent (60%) of the tenants in
   the master-metered building indicate a preliminary interest and if the utility
   company finds that it is practicable to individually meter the building; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The tenant may abandon the individual meter selection within ten (10) days
   after reviewing the detailed Statement of Practicability which is prepared by
   the utility company.

   402.4. The postcard required by §402.1(e) shall also contain the advisory
   note that failure to return the postcard by a stated date, which shall be not
   less than ten (10) days from the date the postcard is mailed, shall mean that
   the tenant does not wish to receive service in his or her own name and desires
   the appointment of a receiver.

   402.5. The Notice of Tenants&#8217; Rights and Options shall be submitted to
   the Public Service Commission for its approval prior to distribution to
   tenants. A copy of the Notice of Tenants&#8217; Rights and Options shall also
   be published in a newspaper of general circulation on the day that the notices
   are mailed to the tenants and be prominently displayed in an area of the
   apartment house which is readily accessible to all tenants.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 3329, 3333 (July 24, 1981).
