                                  DC REGULATIONS

LEASING OF MOTOR VEHICLES (ยง 27-2116)

2116.1. Each motor vehicle leased by and for the District shall comply with
   all Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards and applicable District motor
   vehicle safety regulations.

   2116.2. Before preparing a solicitation for leasing of motor vehicles, the
   contracting officer shall obtain from the requesting agency written
   certification of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the vehicles requested are of maximum fuel efficiency and minimum
   body size, engine size, and equipment necessary to fulfill operational needs,
   and meet prescribed fuel economy standards; and
   
   
   
   (b)	That the head of the requesting agency has certified that any requested
   passenger automobiles (sedans and station wagons) that are larger than compact
   size are essential to the agency&#8217;s mission.

   2116.3. The solicitation shall not be limited to current-year production
   models. However, with the prior approval of the head of the using agency, the
   solicitation may be limited to current models on the basis of overall economy.

   2116.4. The contracting officer shall include the following items in each
   solicitation for leasing motor vehicles:
   
   
   
   (a)	The scope of the contract;
   
   
   
   (b)	The method of computing payments;
   
   
   
   (c)	A listing of the number and type of vehicles required, and the equipment
   and accessories to be provided with each vehicle;
   
   
   
   (d)	The responsibilities of the contractor or the District for furnishing
   gasoline, motor oils, antifreeze, and similar items;
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement that the contractor shall perform all maintenance on the
   vehicles, unless the contracting officer determines that it will be more
   economical for the District to perform the work;
   
   
   
   (f)	A statement regarding the applicability of pertinent District laws and
   regulations, and the responsibility of each party for compliance; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The responsibilities of the contractor and the District for emergency
   repairs and services.

   2116.5. In each solicitation and contract for leasing of motor vehicles, the
   contracting officer shall insert clauses, approved by the Director, pertaining
   to vehicle lease payments, condition of leased vehicles, marking of leased
   vehicles, and other pertinent clauses approved by the Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1522 (February 26, 1988).
