                                  DC REGULATIONS

TRANSFER REQUEST BY TENANT (§ 14-6402)

6402.1. DCHA tenants’ requests for transfers must be reduced to writing. The
   “Tenant Request for Transfer” must state the reason(s) for requesting the
   transfer, provide any supporting documents, and, if applicable, may identify
   up to three sites for possible transfer. Tenants may use the “Tenant Request
   for Transfer” form available in each DCHA property management office.

   6402.2. DCHA will approve transfer requests only for tenants who are compliant
   with the terms and conditions of their leases and have resided in their
   dwelling units for at lease one year. Disabled tenants, who request reasonable
   accommodation transfers as described below, are not subject to the one-year
   limitation.

   6402.3. A lease compliant tenant household is one that meets the following
   criterion:
   
   
   
   (a)	Current on rent payments and/or on any repayment agreement;
   
   
   
   (b)	Current on utility payments and/or on any utility repayment agreement;
   
   
   
   (c)	Current with recertification process;
   
   
   
   (d)	Has no history of criminal activity or disturbances;
   
   
   
   (e)	Is not subject to a citation for any lease violation;
   
   
   
   (f)	Has a good housekeeping record as evidenced by a housekeeping inspection;
   and
   
   
   
   (g)	Is not subject to a Notice-to-Quit or Cure.

   6402.4. Any tenant household that is subject to a Notice-to-Quit that cannot
   be cured, is not compliant with terms of lease.

   6402.5. Each member of the tenant household must be lease compliant.

   6402.6. DCHA shall deny all requests for transfers by tenant households that
   are not compliant with the terms of their leases.

   6402.7. Exceptions to the requirement that tenants requesting transfers be
   lease compliant may be made for life threatening conditions or for tenants
   seeking transfers to units with accessible features.

   6402.8. Transfers processed under this section will not take priority over
   DCHA initiated mandatory transfers or new admissions, except in the selection
   of families to occupy units with special accessibility features for persons
   with disabilities. DCHA will first offer such units to families on its
   transfer waiting list to families that include persons with disabilities who
   require such accessibility features over new admissions.

   6402.9. The DCHA shall acknowledge receipt of each Tenant Request for
   Transfer. The date of acknowledgment shall serve as the Tenant Request for
   Transfer date, which will be used by DCHA to determine the tenant’s place on
   the applicable transfer waiting list.

   6402.10. The DCHA shall notify the tenant, in writing, in no more than 30 days
   from the date of acknowledgment, what action it has taken with regard to the
   Request for Transfer, e.g., approval, disapproval, or further review of the
   Request is required. If further review is necessary, DCHA shall provide a date
   by which it expects to issue a final decision on the Request.

   6402.11. Although DCHA approves a Tenant Request for Transfer, a unit may not
   be immediately available. When a unit is available, DCHA shall issue the
   tenant a “Notice of Transfer Assignment.” The Notice will direct the
   tenant when and where to report to inspect the new dwelling unit.

   6402.12. The tenant household must be lease compliant at the time that its
   name reaches the top of the Transfer Waiting List. If the tenant is not lease
   compliant as outlined above, DCHA will withdraw the tenant’s transfer
   approval.

   6402.13. If the tenant household accepts the new dwelling unit, the tenant
   shall execute a Notice of Lease Termination at the property from which he/she
   is moving, upon completion of the arrangement for transfer to the new
   location.

   6402.14. Upon acceptance of the new dwelling unit, the tenant must execute a
   new lease, which, if applicable, accepts liability for any outstanding
   conditions related to the prior lease agreement. In accordance with § 6402.6,
   if a tenant household is transferred with an outstanding debt, DCHA will not
   transfer the household unless and until a payment plan is established or, if
   the household is in violation of a payment plan, DCHA will not permit the
   tenant household to transfer until the debt is paid-in-full.

   6402.15. Tenants who are approved for transfers under this section shall bear
   the cost of moving to the new dwelling unit. The new dwelling unit shall not
   be held for more than 35 days from the date of the unit availability. If a
   tenant, who has an approved transfer, does not move into the new dwelling unit
   within 35 days from the date of the unit’s availability, the tenant’s name
   shall be removed from the appropriate transfer waiting list.

   6402.16. If a tenant refuses a transfer initiated at his/her own request, to
   the property of his/her own choice, the tenant’s name shall be removed from
   the transfer list and DCHA shall send the tenant a notice of such action. If a
   tenant did not identify a property, he/she may be offered up to two locations.
   If the tenant refuses the first, his/her name may be returned to the transfer
   waiting list to await the availability of another unit. If the tenant rejects
   the second assignment, his/her name will be removed from the transfer waiting
   list and DCHA shall send the tenant a notice of such action.

   6402.17. All actions or inactions by DCHA under this section are subject to
   the Tenant Grievance Procedure that is outlined in chapter 63 of this title.

   6402.18. The following conditions shall dictate DCHA’s priority for its
   transfer of tenants who request transfers to another dwelling unit. Tenants
   who are approved for transfers under this section will be transferred based on
   the hierarchy set forth below and on the date that the “Tenant Request for
   Transfer” was acknowledged by the DCHA:
   
   
   
   (a)	First priority will be given to situations of a life threatening medical
   or public safety nature. These situations may include serious medical
   conditions, crimes, domestic violence, hate crimes, or other situations which
   endanger a tenant or household member’s life from something other than the
   condition of the unit or the building. These life- threatening conditions must
   be documented and verified.
   
   
   
   (b)	Second Priority shall be given to tenants with verified disabilities who
   require dwelling units with accessible features or as a reasonable
   accommodation. These transfers would include transferring residents to
   accessible or adaptable dwelling units or sites where conditions are
   documented to be more favorable for their disabilities than the unit or site
   from which they are seeking to transfer.
   
   
   
   (c)	Third Priority shall be given to tenant households that are over or under
   housed. These transfers would permit tenants to reside in dwelling units of
   the correct size for household members listed on their lease or those
   recognized by the DCHA as a result of its recertification process. To
   determine whether a dwelling unit is too small or too large, DCHA shall use
   the occupancy standards outlined at chapter 61 of this Title. If DCHA approves
   a tenant’s request for transfer, the household must transfer as one unit.
   The DCHA will not split families.
   
   
   
   (d)	Fourth Priority shall be given to issues of convenience as described by
   tenants requesting transfers.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2462, 2464-67 (March
   15, 2002).
