                                  DC REGULATIONS

MANDATORY TRANSFER INITIATED BY DCHA (§ 14-6401)

6401.1. Transfers initiated by the DCHA are mandatory. The DCHA shall initiate
   mandatory transfers for households in order to alleviate certain housing
   conditions. The following represents examples of such conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	To relocate residents who are living in conditions that represent an
   emergency or a threat to life, health, or safety (e.g., fire, flood, no water)
   as determined by DCHA, another governmental entity, or as a result of a
   judicial proceeding;
   
   
   
   (b)	To place households in units of the correct size when authorized tenants
   (household members listed on lease or certified by the DCHA) are
   under-occupying (assigned dwelling units are too large for the household) or
   over-occupying (assigned dwelling units are too small for the household) their
   assigned dwelling units in relation to the occupancy standards as set forth in
   chapter 61 of this title;
   
   
   
   (c)	To relocate households to alleviate threat of attack by criminal elements
   as verified and documented by the DCHA Police Department or any other police
   department or law enforcement agency authorized to operate in the District of
   Columbia;
   
   
   
   (d)	To permit DCHA to make significant repairs, modernize, rehabilitate, or
   demolish dwelling unit(s) or apartment building(s);
   
   
   
   (e)	To relocate households to facilitate the future rehabilitation of a DCHA
   property;
   
   
   
   (f)	To permit occupancy of a unit with accessibility feature by a transferring
   resident or eligible applicant with a verified need for such a unit;
   
   
   
   (g)	To alleviate any other conditions of hardship as determined by DCHA or to
   effectuate DCHA goals and/or objectives.

   6401.2. Tenants subject to a mandatory transfer shall receive a “Notice of
   Mandatory Transfer.” The Notice shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Statement of the reason for the transfer;
   
   
   
   (b)	Location of the new dwelling unit;
   
   
   
   (c)	Statement regarding how the move will be financed; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The specific date by which the move must occur.

   6401.3. Tenants subject to a mandatory transfer will receive one offer of
   transfer. The offer of transfer shall be for a dwelling unit meeting the needs
   of the household in accordance with DCHA occupancy standards and, if the
   household includes a member with a disability, a dwelling unit that has
   features appropriate for the disability or one that is adaptable.

   6401.4. Applications for a transfer must be made to the resident&#8217;s
   property manager, but all paperwork, verification and unit assignments shall
   be made by the Director of Housing Management, except in the case of a
   resident request for a transfer as a reasonable accommodation of a disability
   in which case the request will be processed by the Office of the ADA/504
   Coordinator and the Client Placement Division.

   6401.5. DCHA shall, at its sole discretion, elect to either bear the cost of a
   mandatory transfer by providing funds to the affected household or to move the
   household with its own resources, which may include the use of DCHA staff
   and/or a moving contractor.

   6401.6. A tenant who receives a written offer of a new dwelling unit and who
   refuses to move by the date specified in the Notice of Mandatory Transfer
   shall be issued a Notice to Quit or Cure.

   6401.7. DCHA initiated mandatory transfers shall take precedence over new
   admissions and tenant requested transfers.

   6401.8. Tenants who are subject to lease termination procedures who are
   transferred under this chapter because of exigent or other circumstances,
   shall not be exempt from the lease termination process. All actions, including
   any action for non-payment of rent, shall transfer with the tenant to the new
   dwelling unit, via the new lease agreement.

   6401.9. Mandatory transfers shall take priority over new admissions.

   6401.10. DCHA shall relocate to a vacant, non-accessible unit within six (6)
   months, the remaining household members occupying a unit with accessibility
   features after the death, or relocation for any other reason, of the disabled
   household member who required the accessibility features of such Unit and who
   are subject to a mandatory transfer under 640 1.1 (f) herein.

   6401.11. The decision to initiate a mandatory transfer pursuant to this
   chapter may be made only after review and approval by a supervisor in the
   Operations Division of DCHA.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2462, 2463-64 (March
   15, 2002);as amended by notice of Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR
   9290,9294(November 17, 2006);as amended by notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 54 DCR 12312 (December 21, 2007).
