                                  DC REGULATIONS

MANDATORY SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS (ยง 14-5103)

5103.1. Each Family member claiming U.S. citizenship or eligible immigration
   status shall be required to disclose and verify a Social Security Number (SSN)
   prior to admission.

   5103.2. Applicant families who cannot disclose and verify SSNs for all Family
   members claiming citizenship or eligible immigration status shall be allowed
   to retain their position on the waiting list. A Family shall not be admitted
   into the HCVP until all Family members claiming U.S. citizenship or eligible
   immigration status have disclosed and verified SSNs.

   5103.3. U.S. citizens and lawfully present noncitizens who state that they
   have not been assigned a SSN by the Social Security Administration (SSA) shall
   make such declaration in writing and under penalties of perjury to DCHA. DCHA
   shall maintain the declaration in the participant file until a SSN is
   assigned.

   5103.4. Applicant families who will receive assistance under the Moderate
   Rehabilitation Single Room Occupancy Program shall have ninety (90) days after
   admission into the Program to provide appropriate documentation of their SSN.

   5103.5. For families currently participating, the Family shall be required to
   disclose and verify SSNs for all Family members claiming U.S. citizenship or
   eligible immigration status at the time of their next interim recertification
   or regular recertification.

   5103.6. The only HUD-approved forms of verification of Social Security Numbers
   are:
   
   
   
   (a) 	An original SSN card issued by SSA;
   
   
   
   (b)	An original SSA-issued document that contains the name and SSN of the
   individual; or
   
   
   
   (c)	An original document issued by a federal, state, or local government
   agency that contains the name and SSN of the individual.

   5103.7. DCHA shall use an Alternate ID (ALTD ID) to generate a unique
   identifier for those individuals who do not have or unable to disclose a SSN.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7867, 7871 (June 29, 2012).
