                                  DC REGULATIONS

STUDENTS ENROLLED IN INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION (§ 14-5105)

5105.1. This section shall only apply to students who are seeking HCVP
   assistance on their own, as a Head of Household, separately from their
   parents.  It shall not apply to a student who is a member of a Family
   currently participating in the Program or a student who is a member of an
   applicant Family

   5105.2. If a student enrolled at an institution of higher education is under
   the age of twenty-four (24), is not a veteran, is not married, and does not
   have a dependent child, the student’s eligibility shall be examined along
   with the income eligibility of the student’s parents. In these cases, both
   the student and the student’s parents must be determined income eligible in
   order for the student to receive HCVP assistance. If, however, a student in
   these circumstances is determined “independent” from his or her parents in
   accordance with § 5105.3, the income of the student’s parents shall not be
   considered in determining the student’s eligibility.

   5105.3. DCHA shall consider a student “independent” from his or her
   parents and the
   
   parents’ income shall not be considered when determining the student’s
   eligibility if the following four (4) criteria are met:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The individual is of legal contract age under District of Columbia law;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The individual has established a household separate from his or her parents
   for at least one (1) year prior to applying for HCVP assistance;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The individual meets the U.S. Department of Education’s definition of an
   independent student as defined in section of the Higher Education Act of 1965,
   20 U.S.C. § 1087vv(d) (2006); or
   
   
   
   (d)	The individual was not claimed as a dependent by his or her parents
   pursuant to IRS regulations, as demonstrated on the parents’ most recent tax
   returns.

   5105.4. The student must provide certification of the amount of financial
   assistance that will be provided by his or her parents. This certification
   shall be signed by the individual(s) providing the support and shall be
   submitted even if no assistance is being provided. Financial assistance from
   parents shall be considered as income when making the determination of
   eligibility and Total Tenant Payment (TTP).

   5105.5. For any student who is subject to these restrictions and who does not
   satisfy the definition of an independent student in this section, DCHA shall
   determine whether the student’s parents are income eligible for the Program
   so as to allow the student to become a HCVP participant as follows:
   
   
   
   (a) 	If the student’s parents are married and living together, DCHA shall
   	obtain a joint income declaration and certification of joint income from 	the
   parents;
   
   
   
   (b)	If the student’s parent is widowed or single, DCHA shall obtain an
   income declaration and certification of income from that parent;
   
   
   
   (c)	If the student’s parents are divorced or separated, DCHA shall obtain an
   income declaration and certification of income from each parent;
   
   
   
   (d)	If the student has been living with one (1) of his or her parents and has
   not had contact with or does not know where to contact his or her other
   parent, the student shall submit a certification under penalty of perjury,
   describing the circumstances and stating that the student does not receive
   financial assistance from the other parent. DCHA shall then obtain an income
   declaration and certification of income from the parent with whom the student
   has been living or had contact;
   
   
   
   (e)	In determining the income eligibility of the student’s parents, DCHA
   shall use the PHA income limits for the jurisdiction in which the parents
   live; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Both students and parents shall meet the low-income limit.

   5105.6. If DCHA determines that the student, the student’s parents, if
   applicable, or the student’s Family is not eligible, DCHA shall send a
   notice of denial in accordance with the policies in chapter 89 of this title
   of the DCMR.

   5105.7. The following definitions shall only apply to student eligibility
   determinations under § 5105:
   
   
   
   Dependent Child &#8211; a dependent child of a student enrolled in an
   institution of higher education. The dependent child shall also meet the
   definition of dependent, which states that the dependent shall be a member of
   the assisted Family, other than the Head of Household or spouse, who is under
   18 years of age, or is a person with a disability, or is a full-time student.
   Foster children and adult wards are not considered dependents.
   
   
   
   Institution of Higher Education &#8211; as defined in section 102 of the
   Higher Education Act of 1965,  20 U.S.C. § 1002 (2006).
   
   
   
   Parents &#8211; biological or adoptive parents, stepparents as long as they
   are currently married to the biological or adoptive parent, and guardians
   (such as grandparents, aunt or uncle, and godparents).
   
   
   
   Veteran &#8211; a person who served in the active military, Naval, or Air
   service and who was discharged or released from such service under conditions
   other than dishonorable.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7867, 7872 (June 29, 2012).
