                                  DC REGULATIONS

FAMILY COMPOSITION CHANGES PRIOR TO VOUCHER ISSUANCE (§ 14-5101)

5101.1. DCHA shall only consider an applicant Family’s request to add an
   adult to the Family composition under the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)  	Marriage;
   
   
   
   (b)  	If the adult is to be added as a live-in aide; or
   
   
   
   (c)  	As a reasonable accommodation.

   5101.2. DCHA shall only consider an applicant Family’s request to add a
   Family member if one (1) of the following documents is provided for
   verification:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Birth certificate;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Marriage certificate or record of domestic partnership;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Approved reasonable accommodation request;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Court order (guardianship, foster care, custodial agreements); or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Adoption order.

   5101.3. When an applicant Family on the HCVP waiting list breaks up into two
   otherwise eligible families, only one of the families may retain the original
   application date. Other Family members may make a new application with a new
   application date if the waiting list is open.

   5101.4. DCHA shall determine which applicant Family retains their placement on
   the waiting list on a case by case basis, taking into consideration several
   factors, including but not limited to:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Head of Household listed on the original application;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If a court determines the disposition of property between members of the
   applicant Family in a divorce or separation under a settlement or judicial
   decree, DCHA is bound by the court&#8217;s determination of which Family
   members maintains its position on the waiting list;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The interest of any minor children, including custody arrangements;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The interest of any ill, elderly, or disabled Family members; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any possible risks to Family members as a result of domestic violence, sexual
   violence, dating violence, stalking, or criminal activity.

   5101.5. DCHA shall retain appropriate supporting documentation in the
   applicant Family’s file as to why the decision was made.

   5101.6. If the Head of Household on the original application does not retain
   their placement on the waiting list they shall be informed in writing of the
   decision and their rights under chapter 89 of this title of the DCMR.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7867 (June 29, 2012).
