                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPORTING AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES (ยง 24-2404)

2404.1. The Metropolitan Police Department shall publicize the Firearms Bounty
   Program through the media and through word of mouth by its investigators.

   2404.2. The Metropolitan Police Department shall establish a twenty-four (24)
   hour central number for citizens to convey information regarding firearm
   offenses defined in this chapter. All calls shall be received in person by
   members of the Metropolitan Police Department, i.e., no tape recordings.

   2404.3. Any element of the Metropolitan Police Department, other than that
   housing the central number for this Fund, shall refer citizens to the central
   number. If the citizen is unwilling or unable to call that number, all
   information will be taken and immediately relayed to the element housing the
   central number.

   2404.4. All information received by the central number unit shall be relayed
   expeditiously to the appropriate investigating element of the Metropolitan
   Police Department.

   2404.5. If information is received by members of the Metropolitan Police
   Department under this chapter which requires immediate attention, members
   shall take the appropriate action. If the action results in the arrest of a
   subject, arresting officers shall make reference in their report that the
   arrest was made based on information provided under this chapter. Arresting
   officers&#8217; supervisors shall then transmit a copy of all reports to the
   element housing the central number established under this chapter.

   2404.6. The Metropolitan Police Department shall be responsible for tracking
   all cases made by its members under this chapter through the criminal justice
   system up to adjudication or conviction.

   2404.7. Upon receiving a recommendation for a reward from the Reward Advisory
   Panel, the Chief of Police shall within fifteen (15) days of the receipt
   approve the reward, reduce the reward amount, or deny the reward.

   2404.8. The Metropolitan Police Department shall make appropriate arrangements
   for the disbursement of monies from the Fund in the designated amount which
   was approved by the Chief of Police to the intended recipient.

   2404.9. Callers shall be advised to maintain contact with the unit housing the
   central number at thirty-day (30) intervals in order to ascertain the status
   of their case.

   2404.10. At any time, the Chief of Police may publicly announce a specific
   reward from the Fund for an identified crime or series of crimes which fall
   under this chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 6037, 6040 (August 26, 1994).
