                                  DC REGULATIONS

INCOME ELIGIBILITY AND TARGETING (ยง 14-7602)

7602.1. Income Eligibility. All applicants must meet income eligibility
   requirements as established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
   Development, but generally household income under fifty percent (50%) of Area
   Median Income as defined by HUD (AMI) is required, as further limited as
   described below in this Section 7602. In certain limited situations where a
   family receives a voucher in connection with a property that is leaving the
   federal program, the income may be as high as ninety-five percent (95%) of
   AMI. Any exception to these requirements must have been previously approved by
   the HUD Field Office.

   7602.2. Income Targeting. A minimum of seventy-five percent (75%) of the
   families admitted to the HCVP during each fiscal year must be extremely
   low-income families. An extremely low-income family is one whose annual income
   does not exceed thirty percent (30%) of AMI.

   7602.3. Admission Income Monitoring. DCHA does not give an automatic
   preference for extremely low-income families. However, DCHA does monitor HCVP
   income- targeting requirements for admissions throughout the fiscal year, and
   take the following steps:
   
   
   
   (a)	If at any time the extremely low-income families make up less than
   seventy- five percent (75%) of the admissions from the waiting list for the
   fiscal year to date, DCHA shall thereafter give priority to extremely
   low-income families in each of the established preference categories until
   extremely low-income admissions again make up seventy-five percent (75%) of
   admissions for that fiscal year;
   
   
   
   (b)	If there are not enough extremely low-income families on the waiting list,
   DCHA shall conduct outreach on a non-discriminatory basis to attract extremely
   low-income families to reach the statutory requirement.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 11120 (August
   20, 2004); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 1153
   (February 17, 2006).
