                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIAL ADMISSIONS (ยง 14-7603)

7603.1. Special HUD Admissions. DCHA receives special allocations of vouchers
   that are identified for families living in buildings funded through HUD. DCHA
   administers these vouchers in accordance with any conditions imposed by HUD
   and for those families in categories (a) and (b) exception to the income
   limits set forth in subsection 7602.1 hereof. Moreover, the families receiving
   assistance under the Special Admissions do not have to qualify for a Local
   Preference. The following are examples of types of Special Admissions
   programs:
   
   
   
   (a)	Housing covered by the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident
   Home-ownership Act of 1990;
   
   
   
   (b)	A family residing in a property covered by a project-based Section 8 HAP
   contract at or near the end of the HAP contract term for which DCHA receives a
   special allocation of vouchers; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A non-purchasing family residing in a HOPE I or HOPE II project.

   7603.2. Special Targeted Admissions. In response to joint applications from
   DCHA and social service providers, HUD awards grants of vouchers for Targeted
   Admissions toward certain family types. The grant applications specify whether
   the families to be targeted will be from DCHA&#8217;s waiting list or from the
   waiting list of the social service provider. The families receiving assistance
   under Targeted Admissions do not have to qualify for a Local Preference. DCHA
   has the following targeted programs which use the waiting list of the social
   service provider:
   
   
   
   (a)	Veteran&#8217;s Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) &#8211; Subsidizes one
   bedroom vouchers for disabled veterans referred from the U.S. Department of
   Veteran&#8217;s Affairs Supportive Housing Program.
   
   
   
   (b)	Family Unification &#8211; Subsidizes families whose children have been
   placed in the foster care system and who are referred by the D.C. Department
   of Human Services, Child and Family Services Administration.
   
   
   
   (c)	Mainstream Housing &#8211; Subsidizes disabled families who are referred
   from organizations such as Deaf-Reach, the Columbia Lighthouse for the Blind,
   DC Care Consortium, DC Arc, the DC Center for Independent Living, and the
   Commission on Mental Health.

   7603.3. Special DCHA Admissions. Families receiving voucher assistance under
   Special DCHA Admissions as specified in this subsection 7603.3 must qualify
   under the DCHA&#8217;s eligibility conditions, and where applicable, any
   admissions criteria, preferences and priorities of a particular project for
   project-based vouchers, but do not have to qualify otherwise for a local
   preference under Section 7604 hereof, or be drawn from the DCHA waiting list,
   for the following categories:
   
   
   
   (a)	Vouchers issued in connection with development and redevelopment projects
   and programs undertaken by DCHA or its subsidiaries, including vouchers for
   (i) families being relocated in connection with development or redevelopment
   activities by DCHA, its subsidiaries, or its joint venture partners, and (ii)
   families relocated, with or without a voucher, in connection with such
   activities, electing to participate in HCVP&#8217;s Partnership Program or
   Home Ownership Assistance Program, provided they meet the other eligibility
   requirements of those programs.
   
   
   
   (b)	Vouchers issued for current occupants of existing, occupied housing units
   that are awarded subsidy assistance through the project-based Partnership
   Program for Affordable Housing, or other project-based programs locally funded
   or as may be funded by HUD from time to time, provided the occupant otherwise
   meets the eligibility requirements of those programs.
   
   
   
   (c)	Vouchers issued for public housing waiting list applicants who have been
   determined eligible for selection as mobility impaired and in need of a
   housing opportunity with accessibility features.

   7603.4. Project-based assistance admissions. For units in the Partnership
   Program, the Moderate Rehabilitation program or other project-based housing,
   that become vacant and where there are no returning prior tenant, existing
   tenant, or mobility impaired preferences governing the project, the owner or
   manager may refer applicants to HCVP who are not on the HCVP Waiting List.
   Such referred applicants, will not be required to be processed through the
   waiting list or qualify for a Local Preference, provided, however, that
   eligible applicants from the applicable HCVP Waiting List have not been
   referred by DCHA within 30 days of notification of such vacancy from the owner
   or manager.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 11120 (August
   20, 2004); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 1153
   (February 17, 2006).
