                                  DC REGULATIONS

DECLARATORY ORDERS[COLON] PURPOSE, GENERAL RULE, AND DEFINITIONS (§ 9-4200)

4200.1. Pursuant to D.C. Official Code § 2-508 (2011 Repl.), on petition of
   any interested person, the Chief Financial Officer may issue a declaratory
   order with respect to the applicability of any rule, regulation, Council act
   or resolution, or statute administered by the Office of Tax and Revenue, to
   terminate a controversy (other than a contested case) or remove an
   uncertainly.

   4200.2. A petition for a declaratory order shall be filed in writing, clearly
   marked to indicate that it is being filed pursuant to this regulation.  The
   petition shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Contain a detailed statement of the facts on which the petition is based;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Set forth fully the statutes, regulations, or judicial decisions relevant to
   the issue;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Pose the question of whether, and in what manner, the statutes, regulations,
   or judicial decisions apply to the petitioner under the facts outlined in the
   petition; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Contain a statement describing the interest of the petitioner in making the
   request for the declaratory order.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	The description shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Include a statement as to whether the declaratory order sought is intended to
   affect the tax consequences of any transaction or transactions entered into or
   contemplated by the petitioner, its vendors, customers, clients, or any other
   person upon whose request or upon whose behalf the declaratory order is
   sought, the taxability of which is known by the petitioner to be the subject
   of an inquiry, audit, refund, or assessment proceeding by the Office of Tax
   and Revenue; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Contain an explanation of the circumstances surrounding the inquiry, audit,
   refund, or assessment proceedings, if any.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	The Chief Financial Officer shall consider the petition and may, at the Chief
   Financial Officer’s discretion, issue the declaratory order requested. This
   determination to issue an order or not issue an order will be promptly
   communicated to the practitioner. The Chief Financial Officer may require
   argument on the petition.  A declaratory order issued by the Chief Financial
   Officer shall be in writing and plainly state that it is a declaratory order
   issued pursuant to this chapter.  A written answer from the Office of Tax and
   Revenue to an inquiry from a taxpayer may not be construed to be a declaratory
   order unless made in conformity with this regulation.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	A declaratory order shall be binding between the Chief Financial Officer and
   the petitioner on the stated facts alleged, unless such order is altered or
   set aside by a court.  The declaratory order shall be binding as to a
   transaction:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Entered into before the date of the declaratory order; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   In reliance upon the declaratory order, unless a change in the legal basis of
   the declaratory order is made by statute, regulation, or judicial decision
   after the issuance of the declaratory order and before any affected
   transaction.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	The Chief Financial Officer will publish declaratory orders of general
   interest, subject to the protection of the identity of the petitioner and
   confidential information contained in the declaratory order. The requestor of
   the declaratory order may submit a redacted version of the order within thirty
   (30) days of the date of the declaratory order.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	With prospective effect only, a declaratory order may be revoked, altered, or
   amended by the Chief Financial Officer at any time by written notice to the
   petitioner, and if the revocation, alteration, or amendment would concern an
   order that has been published, such revocation, alteration, or amendment shall
   also be published promptly.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 2330 (March 23, 2012).
