                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPLIANCE (§ 14-3518)

3518.1. If the Mayor’s delegee determines that the land trust is not in
   substantial compliance with the Act, the Plan, the land trust agreement, or
   this chapter, the Mayor’s delegee shall provide written notice of such
   noncompliance to the land trust.

   3518.2. If a federal entity or other investor defaults any portion of the
   loans, grants, or equity investments provided to the land trust, such default
   shall be considered substantial noncompliance with this chapter.

   3518.3. Within thirty (30) days after receiving a written notice of
   noncompliance from the Mayor’s delegee, the land trust shall submit a
   written plan (“corrective plan”) describing in detail the steps that will
   be taken to correct all events of noncompliance identified by the Mayor’s
   delegee.

   3518.4. Within thirty (30) days after the Mayor’s delegee receives the
   corrective plan, the Mayor’s delegee shall accept or reject the corrective
   plan.

   3518.5. If the land trust fails to submit a corrective plan, the Mayor’s
   delegee rejects the corrective plan, or the land trust fails to take the steps
   detailed in the corrective plan approved by the Mayor’s delegee, the
   Mayor’s delegee may require the land trust to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Transfer to another 501(c)(3) organization all rights, including rights to
   first refusal and rights to enforce deed restrictions, for a percentage of
   land trust financings equal to the District proportion, as defined in
   paragraph (b) of this subsection ; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Transfer to another 501(c)(3) organization assets with a value equal to
   the total assets of the land trust multiplied by the proportion of the
   outstanding financial investment made by the District to the outstanding
   audited financial investment, including debt and equity, by private lenders
   and investors (for example the ratio of the anticipated initial investment by
   the District of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) to the anticipated initial
   investment by lenders and investors of sixty-five million dollars
   ($65,000,000) would be 1 to 6.5) (“District proportion”), to the extent
   that the transfer shall not compromise the rights or legal interests of the
   New Markets Tax Credits investors and allocatees.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 7931 (July 25, 2008).
