                                  DC REGULATIONS

LAND TRUST FINANCING[COLON] GENERAL (§ 14-3504)

3504.1. The land trust may provide financial assistance for the purchase,
   construction, or acquisition of housing units that are permanently affordable
   to households with annual incomes at or below one hundred twenty percent
   (120%) of the area median income through the provision of land trust
   financing, which shall consist of individual financing and development
   financing.

   3504.2. Individual financing shall be provided to assist eligible households
   in the purchase of qualified housing units or land trust housing units.

   3504.3. Development financing shall be provided to assist in the financing of
   the construction or acquisition of qualified housing units or land trust
   housing units.

   3504.4. No land trust financing shall be provided for housing units outside
   the District.

   3504.5. Another District-administered subsidy may be combined with land trust
   financing only if:
   
   
   
   (a)	The housing units assisted with the land trust financing would meet the
   requirements of the land trust program, including affordability level and
   permanent affordability, without the other District-administered subsidy; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The combination of the land trust financing and other District subsidy
   achieves greater affordability of housing units that are subject to a use
   restriction that permanently requires occupancy by low income households.

   3504.6. If another District subsidy is combined with land trust financing, the
   calculation of the portfolio average of household incomes and the portfolio
   average of housing unit purchase prices achieved by the land trust financing
   shall exclude the other District subsidies; provided, that the lower purchase
   price and/or lower purchaser household income achieved through the combination
   may be included in the calculation if the land trust financing achieves
   permanent affordability of housing units that are not subject to a use
   restriction, previously imposed by a District-administered program, that
   permanently requires occupancy by low-income households.

   3504.7. The land trust may request, in writing, a written waiver from the
   Mayor’s delegee for the limitations on calculating the portfolio averages
   set forth in subsection 3504.6.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 7918 (July 25, 2008).
