                                  DC REGULATIONS

INITIAL ACCREDITATION (ยง 17-5601)

5601.1. A nursing school desiring initial accreditation of a nursing program
   shall submit to the Board the following information and pay the required
   review fee:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement of intent to establish a basic program or advanced practice
   program; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A proposal which includes the following information:
   
   
   
   (1)	Documentation of the present and future need for the program and the need
   for entry-level nurses in the District;
   
   
   
   (2)	The rationale for establishment of the program;
   
   
   
   (3)	The potential effect on other nursing programs in the area;
   
   
   
   (4)	The organizational structure of the educational institution documenting
   the relationship of the program within the institution;
   
   
   
   (5)	The accreditation status of the controlling institution;
   
   
   
   (6)	The purpose, mission, and level of the program;
   
   
   
   (7)	The availability of qualified administrators and faculty pursuant to the
   qualifications established under this chapter;
   
   
   
   (8)	Hiring procedures for ensuring administrators and faculty will meet the
   requirements of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (9)	Budgeted faculty positions;
   
   
   
   (10)	The source and description of adequate clinical resources for the level
   of the program;
   
   
   
   (11)	Documentation of adequate academic facilities and staff to support the
   program;
   
   
   
   (12)	Evidence of financial resources adequate for the planning,
   implementation, and continuation of the program;
   
   
   
   (13)	The anticipated student population;
   
   
   
   (14)	The tentative time schedule for planning and initiating the program;
   
   
   
   (15)	Admissions criteria and procedures;
   
   
   
   (16)	Graduation criteria and procedures;
   
   
   
   (17)	A curriculum plan including conceptual framework, program objectives,
   course objectives, and clinical objectives; and
   
   
   
   (18)	A systemic plan for evaluation of the program.

   5601.2. The Board shall approve or disapprove the proposal within one hundred
   and eighty (1 80) days from the date of receipt of the final proposal.

   5601.3. If the Board disapproves the proposal, the nursing school may reapply
   pursuant to ยง 5601.1.

   5601.4. If the Board approves the proposal, the nursing school may submit to
   the Board an application for initial accreditation after the following
   conditions have been met:
   
   
   
   (a)	A nurse administrator or program coordinator, as applicable, meeting
   theeducational and experiential requirements of this chapter for the program
   level has been appointed; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The nursing school has provided documentation that the nurse administrator
   or program coordinator has a substantially equivalent education or experience;
   or
   
   
   
   (c)	The nursing school can provide a rationale to the Board for acceptance of
   other than the minimum required graduate credentials.
   
   
   
   (d)	There are sufficient faculty meeting the requirements of this chapter for
   the program level to initiate the program;
   
   
   
   (e)	The nursing school has submitted to the Board a description of each
   faculty member including credentials; and
   
   
   
   (f)	A site visit has been conducted by the Board, or if applicable, a joint
   site visit has been conducted by the Board and the Education Licensure
   Commission.

   5601.5. Board review of the application for initial accreditation of the
   proposed program, the Board may grant or deny initial accreditation, or may
   grant conditional accreditation. The Board shall issue a letter indicating its
   decision within a reasonable time, not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) days
   from the date of the receipt of the application.

   5601.6. The Board may grant initial accreditation to a newly established
   program upon receipt of evidence that the standards and requirements of this
   chapter are being met.

   5601.7. Following initial accreditation by the Board, the program shall submit
   progress reports to the Board as requested.

   5601.8. Initial accreditation status shall remain in effect until two (2)
   National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX) reporting quarters have passed
   from the graduation date of the program&#8217;s first graduating class, unless
   otherwise withdrawn by the Board.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 7190 (July 23, 2004); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 2116 (March 9, 2007).
