                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRACTICAL NURSING EDUCATION PROGRAMS (ยง 17-5607)

5607.1. A qualified nurse administrator shall direct and implement a practical
   nursing education program in the District.

   5607.2. The nurse administrator shall, with the participation of the faculty,
   be responsible for administration, planning, implementation, and evaluation of
   the program.

   5607.3. The nurse administrator shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be currently licensed, in good standing, as a registered nurse in the
   District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a minimum of a master&#8217;s degree in nursing; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Have a master&#8217;s degree in education with a baccalaureate degree in
   nursing.
   
   
   
   (d)	Have educational preparation or experience in teaching, curriculum
   development, and administration, including a minimum of two (2) years of
   post-graduate clinical experience; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Have current knowledge of nursing practice at the practical nurse level.

   5607.4. The nurse administrator shall establish and maintain a practical
   nursing advisory committee to make recommendations to the program for
   improvement, to assist in interpreting the program to the community, and to
   make the program aware of the current concepts in practical nursing education
   and health trends in the area.

   5607.5. The advisory committee shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Consist of at least seven (7) members appointed by the Nurse
   Administrator;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be members of the community living or currently practicing in the District
   who are aware of the acute, long-term care, and community health care needs of
   the community;
   
   
   
   (c)	Include a consumer, a health care administrator, a licensed practical
   nurse, a licensed registered nurse, a current student or graduate, an educator
   not associated with the program, and the program&#8217;s nurse administrator;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	Meet at least twice each year.

   5607.6. The faculty of the practical nursing education program, including
   clinical faculty members, shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be currently licensed, in good standing, as registered nurses in the
   District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a minimum of a baccalaureate degree in nursing, with the majority of
   the total faculty having a master&#8217;s degree in nursing; or
   
   
   
   (1)	Current evidence of progress towards a master&#8217;s degree in nursing;
   or
   
   
   
   (2)	Evidence of course work; or
   
   
   
   (3)	Certification relevant to current teach role.
   
   
   
   (c)	Have a minimum of two (2) years of clinical experience as registered
   nurses; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Have current knowledge of nursing practice at the practical nurse level.

   5607.7. There shall be written personnel policies for nursing faculty and
   clinical instructors that are in keeping with accepted educational standards
   and which encourage continuing professional growth and development.

   5607.8. The curriculum of the practical nursing education program shall be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Developed and implemented by the nurse administrator and faculty through
   an organizing framework which reflects the philosophy or mission statement of
   the nursing education program;
   
   
   
   (b)	Sequentially and logically organized to facilitate student attainment of
   the knowledge, skills, attitudes, and abilities necessary to achieve the
   program objectives or outcomes for graduates at that level;
   
   
   
   (c)	Based on sound educational principles; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Reflective of the theory and application of the nursing process.

   5607.9. The ratio between nursing and non-nursing courses shall ensure
   sufficient preparation for the safe and effective practice of nursing.

   5607.10. Curriculum content, learning experiences, and methods of instruction
   shall be selected to fulfill program objectives, or outcomes, and provide
   opportunities for a variety of learning alternatives appropriate for
   contemporary knowledge and practice in nursing.

   5607.11. There shall be an educational rationale for the selection and
   distribution of courses and for the selection of theoretical and clinical
   laboratory content in nursing.

   5607.12. The faculty shall develop and implement a written plan for evaluation
   of the total nursing program and shall provide for student participation.

   5607.13. The data from the evaluation plan shall be utilized for continuous
   program improvement and shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Evaluation time intervals;
   
   
   
   (b)	Student evaluation of their classroom and clinical experiences and
   recommendations for improvement;
   
   
   
   (c)	Measurements of graduate satisfaction regarding the adequacy of the
   nursing program to prepare them for the scope of their practice;
   
   
   
   (d)	Evaluation of the graduates by their employers;
   
   
   
   (e)	Faculty and student evaluation of the program&#8217;s clinical placements
   and agencies;
   
   
   
   (f)	Evaluation of the students and faculty, of factors determined by the
   program, by the clinical facilities utilized for clinical placements;
   
   
   
   (g)	Trending graduation rates;
   
   
   
   (h)	Trending graduate performance on the NCLEX;
   
   
   
   (i)	Evaluation of the methods and tools used to measure the students&#8217;
   cognitive, affective, and psychomotor achievement;
   
   
   
   (j)	Evaluation of the program objectives or outcomes;
   
   
   
   (k)	Evidence that the program is meeting its objectives or outcomes as well as
   the changing needs of nursing and its community;
   
   
   
   (l)	Recommendations and a planned course of action for program improvement and
   the correction of identified deficiencies; and
   
   
   
   (m)	Evidence that prior recommendations and evaluation findings have been
   acted upon.

   5607.14. The curriculum shall include didactic instruction in the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Theory and practice in nursing, including the attainment and maintenance
   of physical and mental health and the prevention of illness throughout the
   lifespan for individuals and groups, in:
   
   
   
   (1)	Adult health nursing;
   
   
   
   (2)	Maternal and newborn health;
   
   
   
   (3)	Pediatric nursing;
   
   
   
   (4)	Psychiatric and mental health nursing;
   
   
   
   (5)	Geriatrics; and
   
   
   
   (6)	Community health nursing.
   
   
   
   (b)	Basic concepts of interpersonal relations;
   
   
   
   (c)	Communication;
   
   
   
   (d)	Growth and development;
   
   
   
   (e)	Client education;
   
   
   
   (f)	Cultural diversity;
   
   
   
   (g)	Basic concepts of anatomy;
   
   
   
   (h)	Basic concepts of physiology;
   
   
   
   (i)	Basic concepts of microbiology;
   
   
   
   (j)	Basic concepts of chemistry;
   
   
   
   (k)	Basic concepts of nutrition;
   
   
   
   (l)	Nursing principles and skills;
   
   
   
   (m)	Basic concepts of pharmacology, including clinical experience on the
   administration of drugs;
   
   
   
   (n)	Basic concepts of the nursing process;
   
   
   
   (o)	Basic concepts of ethics;
   
   
   
   (p)	Nursing history and trends; and
   
   
   
   (q)	Vocational and legal aspects of nursing.

   5607.15. Students shall be provided didactic instruction in correlation with
   the related clinical learning experiences.

   5607.16. A clinical shall not be composed of more than ten (10) students per
   clinical instructor and the actual number of students assigned per instructor
   shall be based on the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The acuity of the patient&#8217;s needs;
   
   
   
   (b)	The objectives of the learning experience;
   
   
   
   (c)	The class level of the students;
   
   
   
   (d)	The physical placement of the students;
   
   
   
   (e)	The instructor&#8217;s teaching methods; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The requirements established by the clinical agency.

   5607.17. The faculty shall develop written objectives for each clinical to be
   used as a guide for the selection of clinical agencies and student placements.

   5607.18. The student shall be assigned only to facilities that can provide the
   clinicalobjectives set forth in ยง 5607.20.

   5607.19. The school or program shall ensure that its student practice sites
   contracts with clinical agencies are maintained current and specify the
   expectations and responsibilities of the parties.

   5607.20. Clinical experiences shall provide a variety of learning options that
   are appropriate for the contemporary practice of nursing in the following
   areas:
   
   
   
   (a)	Medical nursing;
   
   
   
   (b)	Surgical nursing;
   
   
   
   (c)	Maternal and newborn health;
   
   
   
   (d)	Pediatric nursing;
   
   
   
   (e)	Psychiatric and mental health nursing;
   
   
   
   (f)	Long-term care; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Community health facilities.

   5607.21. The total hours of a practical nursing education program shall be no
   less than sixteen hundred (1 600) hours with a minimum of six hundred (600) of
   the hours being clinical. Skills lab activities shall not be used as a
   substitute for required clinical hours. For purposes of this requirement, an
   hour shall be no less than fifty (50) minutes.

   5607.22. Clinical preceptors may be used to enhance clinical learning
   experiences after a student has received basic clinical and didactic
   instruction in the specific area or course.

   5607.23. When clinical preceptors are used, the following conditions shall be
   met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The criteria for selecting a preceptor shall be in writing and shall
   include the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The method of selecting clinical preceptors;
   
   
   
   (2)	The plans for orientation of clinical preceptors;
   
   
   
   (3)	The clinical objectives or outcomes of the preceptorship; and
   
   
   
   (4)	A system for monitoring and evaluating the student&#8217;s learning
   experiences.
   
   
   
   (b)	The designated faculty member shall retain responsibility for the
   student&#8217;s learning experiences and meet periodically with the clinical
   preceptor and the student to monitor and evaluate the student&#8217;s learning
   experiences.

   5607.24. The designated faculty member shall be readily available, either
   directly or by a communication device, when students are in the clinical area.

   5607.25. The clinical preceptor shall have the following minimum
   qualifications:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be currently licensed, in good standing, in the state in which they are
   providing the preceptorship, at or above the level for which the student is
   preparing;
   
   
   
   (b)	A minimum of two (2) years of experience as a licensed nurse providing
   direct patient care, during the five (5) years immediately preceding the date
   of the written agreement;
   
   
   
   (c)	A philosophy of health care congruent with that of the nursing program;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	Current knowledge of nursing practice at the practical nurse level.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 7190 (July 23, 2004); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 2116 (March 9, 2007).
