                                  DC REGULATIONS

MAINTENANCE AND USE OF RECORDS (ยง 1-1503)

1503.1. Agency heads shall establish controls over the maintenance and use of
   records in accordance with these regulations, and shall ensure that records of
   continuing historical or other significance can be located when needed and
   that they are preserved in good condition for eventual transfer to the
   Archives.

   1503.2. The head of each agency shall notify the Administrator in writing of
   any actual, impending, or threatened unlawful defacing, alteration, or
   destruction of records in the custody of the agency that shall come to his or
   her attention, and with the advice and assistance of the Administrator shall
   initiate appropriate administrative action under the personnel regulations
   and/or appropriate statute.

   1503.3. Employees of the District shall keep public records at the place where
   they are required by or pursuant to law to keep their offices or other
   facilities, except those disposed of in accordance with approved disposition
   authorizations.

   1503.4. The head of each agency shall notify the Administrator in writing of
   any actual, impending, or threatened removal of records in the custody of the
   agency and, with the advice and assistance of the Administrator, shall
   initiate appropriate action. Such action may be that which is necessary to
   prevent such unlawful removal; or through the Corporation Counsel to recover
   unlawfully removed records.

   1503.5. The Administrator may initiate administrative and/or legal action
   pursuant to sections 1503.2 through 1503.4 above, when he or she determines
   that timely or necessary action will not otherwise be taken.

   1503.6. The head of each agency shall establish safeguards against the
   unlawful destruction or removal of records. Safeguards shall include making it
   known to officials and employees of the agency the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The requirements of this chapter shall be met;
   
   
   
   (b)	Records in the custody of the agency are not to be removed or destroyed
   except in accordance with this chapter; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The penalties provided by law shall be invoked for the unlawful removal or
   destruction of records.

   1503.7. Provision shall be made by each agency head to ensure that permanent
   records are preserved but that other inactive records are promptly disposed of
   as prescribed by approved Records Schedules or Disposal Lists.

   1503.8. On or before the expiration of his or her term of office, each elected
   or appointed official shall transfer or relinquish to his or her successor, or
   if there be none to the Administrator, all public records in his or her
   custody.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 7001, 7004-05 (October 30,
   1987).
