                                  DC REGULATIONS

AGENCY RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS (§ 1-1502)

1502.1. Agency heads shall establish controls over the creation of records to
   ensure that adequate and proper records are made and preserved in the District
   government.

   1502.2. Agency officials shall create and maintain records which meet the
   following minimum documentation standards set forth in subsections 1502.3
   through 1502.5.

   1502.3. The record of every transaction of public business by any District
   official or employee shall be complete to the extent required by the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	To facilitate actions by incumbents and their successors in office;
   
   
   
   (b)	To make possible proper oversight by the Council of the District of
   Columbia, courts and other authorized agencies of the government, and other
   persons responsible for the manner in which public business has been
   discharged; and
   
   
   
   (c)	To protect the financial, legal and other rights of the government and of
   persons affected by the government’s actions.

   1502.4. The programs, policies, and procedures of agencies shall be documented
   in directives. A copy of each directive shall be maintained as a part of the
   official records.

   1502.5. Officials shall create and maintain records containing all essential
   information relating to formulation and execution of government policy as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Significant decisions and commitments reached orally (person to person, by
   telephone, or in conference) shall be documented; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Minutes shall be taken at important board, committee, and staff meetings,
   and these, together with a copy of the agenda and all documents considered at
   or resulting from such meetings, shall be made part of the record.

   1502.6. Papers of a private or nonofficial character which pertain only to an
   individual’s personal affairs that are kept in the office of an official
   shall be clearly designated as nonofficial and shall be filed separately from
   the official records of the office.

   1502.7. In cases where matters requiring the transaction of official business
   are received in private personal correspondence, that portion of such
   correspondence that pertains to official business shall be extracted and made
   a part of the official files.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 7001, 7003-04 (October 30,
   1987).
