                                  DC REGULATIONS

THE DISPOSITION OF PUBLIC RECORDS (ยง 1-1508)

1508.1. Until such time as the Administrator has issued new guidelines,
   agencies shall follow the principles, standards, and procedures set forth in
   the Records Management Handbook entitled The Disposition of Federal Records.

   1508.2. Each agency shall develop a records disposition program as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Inventory all records in the custody of the agency;
   
   
   
   (b)	Develop disposition standards for each type or series of records which
   specify whether the records are of permanent or temporary value;
   
   
   
   (c)	Formulate specific disposition instructions for each series of records
   based on disposition guidelines and instructions issued by the Administrator;
   
   
   
   (d)	Assemble the disposition standards and instructions for each series of
   records into a comprehensive agency Records Retention Schedule;
   
   
   
   (e)	Submit the proposed Records Retention Schedule for approval to the
   Archivist, the Administrator, and the Committee;
   
   
   
   (f)	Make any changes in the proposed Records Retention Schedule that may be
   requested by the Archivist, the Administrator, or the Committee; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Apply the approved Records Retention Schedule to all records of the
   agency.

   1508.3. Any Records Retention Schedule in effect on the date of September 5,
   1985, shall remain in effect until it is amended or repealed pursuant to these
   regulations.

   1508.4. New District agencies shall complete a Records Retention Schedule
   within two (2) years of their establishment.

   1508.5. An approved agency Records Retention Schedule shall specify the proper
   disposition for all agency records. Recurring series of records of continuing
   value shall be scheduled for permanent retention and eventual transfer to the
   Archives. Recurring series of all other records shall be scheduled for
   destruction after a specified period of time based on administrative, fiscal,
   and legal requirements.

   1508.6. All agency Records Retention Schedules shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be prepared in a form specified by the Administrator;
   
   
   
   (b)	Identify and describe clearly each series of records and contain
   disposition instructions that can be readily applied;
   
   
   
   (c)	Be prepared so that each subordinate office will have standing
   instructions detailing the destruction, transfer, or retention of records in
   its custody;
   
   
   
   (d)	Specify for temporary records a retention period of no more than five (5)
   years after creation, or five (5) years after the close of a transaction or
   case file, or five (5) years after an event; unless explicitly required by
   statute to retain the records for a longer period of time. Agency heads shall
   obtain written permission from the Administrator to retain temporary records
   longer than five (5) years for administrative purposes;
   
   
   
   (e)	Describe permanent records adequately to show the types of records,
   arrangement, content, and purpose of the series, finding aids and indexes,
   restrictions on access, and physical form if the records are nontextual items
   such as maps, photographs, microforms, sound recordings, computer tapes, or
   other nontextual records;
   
   
   
   (f)	Establish a cutoff period for permanent records after which they shall be
   offered to the Archives;
   
   
   
   (g)	Provide for the removal to the Records Center or other depository approved
   by the Administrator of those temporary records not eligible for immediate
   destruction which are no longer needed for the conduct of current business.
   Such records shall be maintained by the depository until they are eligible for
   further disposition action;
   
   
   
   (h)	Provide for the destruction of records that have served their statutory,
   fiscal or administrative uses in accordance with these regulations; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Provide for the retention of the minimum volume of current records in
   office space and equipment consistent with efficient operations.

   1508.7. After completion of its Records Retention Schedule, the agency shall
   forward the schedule to the Archivist for review, in the form and manner
   prescribed by the Administrator.

   1508.8. The Archivist shall examine the schedule to ensure that it meets the
   following criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	The schedule is complete, accurate, and clear;
   
   
   
   (b)	The records designated as permanent have sufficient value to warrant their
   transfer to the Archives;
   
   
   
   (c)	No records having permanent value are scheduled for destruction; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The retention periods for temporary records are reasonable.

   1508.9. The Archivist shall notify the agency in writing if he or she
   disapproves the schedule. The agency shall make the necessary corrections or
   modifications and resubmit the schedule to the Archivist.

   1508.10. If the Archivist and the agency cannot agree on the retention period
   for any item, an appeal may be made to the Administrator for a decision.
   Differences shall be resolved prior to the submission of a schedule to the
   Committee.

   1508.11. After approval by the Archivist, the schedule shall be submitted to
   the Administrator for review and approval. The Administrator shall forward the
   schedule to the Committee for final approval.

   1508.12. After approval by the Committee, an agency Records Retention Schedule
   shall constitute the agency&#8217;s legal authorization to implement the
   disposition instructions for the records covered by the schedule.

   1508.13. Provisions of approved agency Records Retention Schedules shall be
   applied only to records dated later than December 31, 1920. Agencies having
   records in their custody dated earlier than 1921 shall notify the Archivist
   and request an appraisal of the records.

   1508.14. Agencies shall review and update their Retention Schedule annually
   unless the Administrator determines that a longer period is appropriate.

   1508.15. Agencies shall schedule the records of new programs within two (2)
   years of their implementation.

   1508.16. Amendments to Retention Schedules may be initiated either by the
   agency or by the Archivist. Amendments shall be in a form prescribed by the
   Administrator and reviewed and approved in the same manner as the Retention
   Schedule.

   1508.17. The head of each agency shall carry out the provisions of an approved
   Retention Schedule on a continuing basis and in a manner that ensures maximum
   economy of space, equipment, and personnel.

   1508.18. The Administrator shall issue detailed instructions on procedures to
   follow in order to implement schedule provisions, and to transfer records to
   the Archives, Records Center, or other approved depository.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 7001, 7008-11 (October 30,
   1987), as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 1085 (February 3,
   1989).
