                                  DC REGULATIONS

DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS (ยง 1-1513)

1513.1. Paper records to be destroyed shall, unless restricted, or whenever
   practicable, be sold as wastepaper and the wastepaper contractor shall be
   required to pulp, macerate, or shred the records. If the records are
   restricted by laws or regulations that prohibit their use by the public, a
   District employee shall witness the destruction of the records.

   1513.2. Records other than paper records, such as x-rays, plastic recordings,
   film, and similar items, may be salvaged or sold, but the contract for sale
   shall prohibit the resale of these records for use as records or documents.

   1513.3. When the public interest will be served, an agency may propose the
   transfer of records authorized for destruction to an eligible individual,
   organization, institution, or governmental body that has made application for
   them. Such donations shall receive the prior written approval of the
   Committee.

   1513.4. The head of an agency shall request the approval of such a transfer by
   a written request that shall include the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name and address of the proposed recipient of the records;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the records to be transferred, including dates and volume
   of the records and the disposition authority that controls the records;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement providing evidence that the proposed transfer is in the best
   interests of the government, the proposed recipient agrees not to sell the
   records as records or documents, and the proposed recipient agrees not to
   transfer the records to any other entity without the prior written approval of
   the Committee; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A certification that the records contain no information the disclosure of
   which is prohibited by law or contrary to the public interest.

   1513.5. The Archivist and the Administrator shall review the request, and the
   Administrator shall make recommendations for the consideration of the
   Committee.

   1513.6. If the request is denied, the agency shall be notified that the
   records shall be destroyed in accordance with appropriate disposal
   authorities.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 7001, 7013-14 (October 30,
   1987).
