                                  DC REGULATIONS

MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE COST FOR PRESCRIBED MULTIPLE SOURCE DRUGS (§ 29-2708)

2708.1     		The allowable cost for multiple source drugs designated by the
   Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and included in its Medicaid
   Drug Rebate Program (“CMS listings”) shall be the lower of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Federal Upper Limit (FUL) for multiple source drugs other than those brand
   names for which a prescriber has certified in writing as “Medically
   Necessary” or “Brand Necessary”; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Maximum Allowable Cost (MAC) established pursuant to § 2708.2 and 2708.3.
   
   
   
   2708.2     	The MAC may be established for any drug, including generics when
   two (2) or more  A-rated therapeutically equivalent, multiple course drugs
   with a significant cost exist.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	The MAC for a drug shall be determined by:
   
   
   
    	(a)	Using comparable drug prices obtained from multiple nationally
   				recognized comprehensive data sources including, but not limited to,
   			pharmacy providers, wholesalers, drug file vendors, and pharmaceutical
   			manufacturers; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Reviewing the average wholesale price (AWP) and the wholesale acquisition
   cost (WAC), when available, or any current equivalent pricing benchmark, and
   applying the necessary multipliers to ensure reasonable access by providers to
   the drug at or below the MAC rate.
   
   
   
   2708.4      	The CMS upper limit for a drug price shall not apply if a
   physician certifies in his
   
   		or her own handwriting that a specific brand is medically necessary for a
   
   		particular patient.

   2708.5. The handwritten phrase “Medically Necessary” or “Brand
   Necessary” shall appear on the face of the prescription form.  If the
   prescription is for a nursing facility beneficiary, the handwritten phrase
   “Medically Necessary” or “Brand Necessary” shall be documented on the
   physician’s order that is maintained as part of the beneficiaries’ medical
   record.

   2708.6. Neither a dual line prescription, check off-box on the prescription
   form, nor check off-box on the physician’s orders and plan of care shall
   satisfy the certification requirement.

   2708.7. A generic drug may also be considered for MAC pricing if there are two
   (2) or more therapeutically equivalent, multiple source drugs with a price
   difference.  The MAC shall be based on drug status (including non rebatable,
   rebatable, obsolete, and therapeutic equivalency ratings), marketplace
   availability, and cost.  The MAC shall be based on drug prices obtained from
   nationally recognized comprehensive data files maintained by a vendor under
   contract with the DHCF.

   2708.8. DHCF shall supplement the CMS listing by adding drugs and their prices
   which meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The formulation of the drug approved by the FDA has been evaluated as
   therapeutically equivalent in the most current edition of its publication,
   Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (including
   supplements or in successor publications); and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   At least two (2) suppliers list the drug (which has been classified by the FDA
   as category “A” in its publication, Approved Drug Products with
   Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (including supplements or in successor
   publications)) based on listing of drugs which are locally available.

   2708.9. A pharmacy provider may identify MAC rates by visiting the
   District’s Pharmacy Benefits Management website at www.dcpbm.com
   
   
   
   		SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 2298, 2304 (March 23,
   2012).
