                                  DC REGULATIONS

PHARMACY LOCK-IN PROGRAM (§ 29-2712)

2712.1  		DHCF, along with the District of Columbia Drug Utilization Review
   Board (DUR Board), shall implement a Pharmacy Lock-In Program to safeguard the
   appropriate use of medications when an individual enrolled in the District of
   Columbia Medicaid Fee-for-Service Program misuses drugs in excess of the
   customary dosage for the proper treatment of the given diagnosis, or misuses
   multiple drugs in a manner that can be medically harmful. Beneficiaries listed
   in §2712.11 shall be exempt from the Pharmacy Lock-In Program.

   2712.2. DHCF shall use the drug utilization guidelines established by the DUR
   Board in support of the restriction. The DUR Board guidelines shall require a
   monthly report from the Medicaid Management Information System to determine
   when a beneficiary may be at risk of exceeding the customarily prescribed
   dosages or utilization.  The report shall identify beneficiaries who meet
   criteria, such as:
   
   
   
   
   
   Greater than three (3) controlled substance prescriptions per month;
   
   
   
   
   
   Greater than three  (3) prescribers for controlled substances within the last
   ninety (90) days;
   
   
   
   
   
   Greater than ten (10) prescriptions per month; or
   
   
   
   
   
   Three (3) or more pharmacies used per month.
   
   
   
   2712.3     	At least fifteen (15) days prior to the effective date of the
   restriction, DHCF shall notify the Medicaid beneficiary in writing of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	DHCF proposes to designate him or her as a restricted Medicaid
   beneficiary;
   
   
   
   (b)	The reason for the restriction;
   
   
   
   (c)	The effective date and duration of the restriction;
   
   
   
   (d)  	The beneficiary’s right to a hearing if he or she disagrees with the
   designation and procedures for requesting a hearing.
   
   
   
   2712.4    	 	The Medicaid beneficiary shall have fifteen (15) days from the
   date of the notice described in §2712.3 to file a   request for a hearing
   with the OAH.
   
   
   
   2712.5      	If the Medicaid beneficiary requests a hearing, no further action
   shall be taken on the restriction designation until OAH issues a final
   decision.
   
   
   
   2712.6    	A restriction may be required for a reasonable amount of time, not
   to exceed twelve (12) months, without a review by the DUR Board. Subsequent
   restrictions shall not be imposed until after the review has concluded.
   
   
   
   2712.7     	 DHCF shall ensure that when a lock-in has been imposed, the
   beneficiary shall continue to have reasonable access to prescription services
   of adequate quality.
   
   
   
   2712.8     	When a restriction is imposed upon a beneficiary, the beneficiary
   may choose the pharmacy of his or her choice, based upon a list of three (3)
   pharmacy providers DHCF identifies.
   
   
   
   2712.9     	When a beneficiary fails to request a hearing with OAH or fails to
   select a designated pharmacy after a decision has been OAH renders upholding
   the restriction within the specified time period, DHCF, on behalf of that
   beneficiary, shall designate a pharmacy for pharmacy services and send a
   letter to the beneficiary indicating the designated pharmacy
   
   
   
   2712.10   	Restrictions shall not apply in situations where emergency services
   are furnished to a beneficiary.

   2712.11. Beneficiaries in skilled nursing facilities, long term care
   facilities, and intermediate care facility for people with developmental
   disabilities/intellectual disabilities (ICF/IDD) shall not be subject to the
   Pharmacy Lock-In Program.
   
   
   
   2712.12   	If a beneficiary, who is enrolled in the Medicaid Managed Care
   
                    	Organization (MCO) who is also required to participate in
   its Pharmacy Lock-In Program, subsequently becomes enrolled in the Medicaid
   Fee-For-Service Program, that beneficiary shall be automatically enrolled in
   the Medicaid Fee-For-Service Pharmacy Lock-In Program. The lock-in shall
   remain in force for a period not to exceed the length of the initial lock-in
   period first imposed by the MCO or twelve (12) months, whichever is less.
   
   
   
   		SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 2298, 2308 (March 23,
   2012).
