                                  DC REGULATIONS

CLAIMS REIMBURSEMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR RETAIL PHARMACIES (§ 29-2710)

2710.1. Reimbursement by the Department shall be restricted to only those
   drugs supplied from manufacturers that have a signed a national agreement or
   an approved existing agreement, as specified in Section 1927(a) of Title XIX
   of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. § 1396r-8(a))..

   2710.2. All prescriptions shall comply with District, state and federal laws
   and regulations for legal prescriptions.

   2710.3. To be reimbursable, all prescriptions that have been written, verbally
   ordered, or electronically initiated by a licensed prescriber shall contain
   the following information on the prescription form:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Name and address of patient;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Individual Prescriber’s Name and National Provider Identifier (NPI);
   
   
   
   (c)	Name, strength and quantity of the medication;
   
   
   
   (d)	Directions for use;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Number of refills, if any;
   
   
   
   (f) 	Indication for “brand medically necessary,” when applicable; and
   
   
   
   (g) 	Signature and date of the prescriber.

   2710.4. To be reimbursable, prescriptions for controlled substances ordered by
   a licensed prescriber shall contain the prescription requirements set forth in
   §2710.3 and include the following additional information:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) number of the licensed prescriber;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The District of Columbia controlled substance registration number of the
   licensed prescriber; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The X-DEA number of the licensed prescriber for buprenorphine/naloxone drug
   preparations.
   
   
   
   2710.5       	Reimbursement for pharmacy claims submitted by a community or
   retail pharmacy provider shall be reimbursed at the lower of the following:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The allowable cost, established pursuant to the methodology described in
   this chapter, as appropriate, plus a dispensing fee of four dollars and fifty
   cents ($4.50) per prescription; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The pharmacy’s usual and customary charge to the general public.
   
   
   
     2710.6	Drugs covered by Medicare for persons who are dually eligible for
   Medicare and Medicaid shall be billed to Medicare under the Medicare
   Prescription Drug Benefit- Part D.  The Medicaid program shall continue to
   provide coverage to persons who are dually eligible for the following excluded
   or otherwise restricted classes of drugs to the same extent that it provides
   coverage to all Medicaid beneficiaries:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Select agents when used for weight gain: Megesterol;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Select prescription vitamins and mineral products except prenatal vitamins and
   fluoride: Folic Acid, Vitamin B 12;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Select non-prescription drugs: analgesics, antacids, and bowel diagnostic
   preparation kits;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All barbiturates until January 1, 2013; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All benzodiazepines until January 1, 2013.
   
   
   
   		SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 2298, 2306 (March 23,
   2012).
