                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 29-2799)

2799.1. For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms and phrases
   shall have the 	meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Brand &#8211; any registered trade name commonly used to identify a drug.
   
   
   
   Compound medication &#8211; any prescription drug, excluding cough
   preparations, in which two (2) or more ingredients are extemporaneously mixed
   by a registered pharmacist.
   
   
   
   Container &#8211; a light resistant receptacle designed to hold a specific
   dosage form which is or maybe in direct contact with the item and does not
   interact physically or chemically with the item or adversely affect the
   strength, quality or purity of the item.
   
   
   
   Department of Health Care Finance (DHCF)- the executive department responsible
   for administering the Medicaid program within the District of Columbia
   effective October 1, 2008.
   
   
   
   Generic drug- a drug that is produced and distributed without patent
   protection.
   
   
   
   Legend drug- a drug that can only be dispensed to the public with a
   prescription.
   
   
   
   Medicaid Drug Rebate Program- This program was created pursuant to the Omnibus
   Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990ย(OBRA&#8217;90).  The Drug Rebate program
   requires a drug manufacturer to enter into and have in effect a national
   rebate agreement with the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human
   Services (HHS) for states to receive Federal funding for outpatient drugs
   dispensed to Medicaid patients.
   
   
   
   Maintenance narcotic medication- A narcotic medication that has been dispensed
   in quantities sufficient for thirty (30) days or more for pain management
   therapy.
   
   
   
   Multiple source drug &#8211; a drug marketed or sold by two (2) or more
   manufacturers or labelers.
   
   
   
   Pharmacy benefit manager &#8211;  a company under contract with managed care
   organizations, self-insured companies and government programs to manage
   pharmacy networks, provide drug utilization reviews, outcome management and
   disease management.
   
   
   
   Prescribed drugs- legend drugs approved as safe and effective by the U.S. Food
   and Drug Administration and those over-the-counter medications which fall into
   the following categories:
   
   
   
   (a)	Oral analgesics with a single active ingredient (such as, aspirin,
   acetaminophen, andibuprofen);
   
   
   
   (b)	Ferrous salts (such as, sulfate and gluconate);
   
   
   
   (c)	Antacids with up to three active ingredients, (such as, aluminum,
   magnesium, and bismuth);
   
   
   
   (d)	Diabetic preparations (such as, insulin and syringes);
   
   
   
   (e)	Pediatric, prenatal, and geriatric vitamin formulations;
   
   
   
   (f)	Family planning drugs and supplies; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Senna extract, single dose preparations when required for diagnostic
   radiological procedures performed under the supervision of a physician.
   
   
   
   		SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 2298, 2311 (March 23,
   2012).
