                                  DC REGULATIONS

TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS (ยง 29-601)

601.1. Subsistence allowance to clients en-route shall normally be furnished
   by the Medical Assistance Division of the Department of Human Services (also
   referred to in this chapter as the &#8220;Division&#8221;), except in cases
   where the clients&#8217; relative or some responsible person(s) undertakes to
   pay for the subsistence.

   601.2. All travel shall be by the most economical usually-traveled route.
   Travel by other routes may be allowed when the official necessity is
   satisfactorily established.

   601.3. Travel either to accompany a patient or return from transporting a
   patient shall not be re-routed for the convenience of the attendant.

   601.4. All attendants who travel for the Division shall be familiar with
   standard government travel regulations.

   601.5. An attendant shall carry written authority to travel as the
   representative of the Department. Authorization cards shall be made available
   to attendants by the Chief of the Division.

   601.6. An attendant shall be responsible for the proper conduct of a trip, the
   care and safety of the client, and contacts between the client and other
   persons while en-route.

   601.7. If a staff member accompanying a client is assisted by an outside
   attendant, the presence of the outside attendant shall in no way lessen the
   staff member&#8217;s responsibility for the trip. If two (2) staff members
   make a transfer, they shall have equal responsibility.

   601.8. An attendant, before departing on any trip, shall be provided with a
   complete set of tickets, an itinerary, and authorization for client&#8217;s
   acceptance, along with any pertinent correspondence, medical abstracts,
   similar materials, and special instructions needed to accomplish the trip.

   601.9. The attendant shall be provided with meal and taxi receipts and with a
   receipt to be signed by the receiving officer or relative at destination if
   the client is being transported from the District.

   601.10. Cash advances to cover per diem allowance and anticipated expenses
   shall be provided to the attendant by the Division. The attendant shall be
   expected to have sufficient funds to provide for any necessary expense of the
   client and shall be expected to exercise prudence in making expenditures.

   601.11. All properties to accompany a client on the transfer shall become the
   responsibility of the attendant until arrival at the destination. The
   attendant shall, when required, give a receipt for the property and in all
   cases shall obtain a receipt for the property from the responsible person at
   destination.

   601.12. Attendants shall be familiar with the government transportation
   request (TR). Transportation requests (TR&#8217;s) shall be used, when
   practicable, to secure official transportation where the amount involved is
   one dollar ($1) or more, but shall not be issued to companies other than
   transportation lines commonly recognized as such.

   601.13. Transportation requests shall under no circumstances be used for other
   than official travel.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 72-29, published at 19 DCR 450 (December 26, 1972).
