                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (ยง 29-600)

600.1. The District shall furnish transportation, including subsistence
   en-route and attendents, including volunteer attendants, when needed, to the
   following categories of non-residents:
   
   
   
   (a)	Persons committed to Saint Elizabeths Hospital by the Commission on Mental
   Health;
   
   
   
   (b)	Medically indigent non-resident persons hospitalized at District expense;
   Provided that no volunteer attendant at any time shall be an employee of the
   District government, except those employed by the Department of Human
   Services, Parole Board, D.C. General Hospital, or probation officers of the
   D.C. Courts and Department of Corrections.

   600.2. Volunteer attendants shall proceed to the point of destination and
   return as quickly as transportation permits, without stop-off or stop-over for
   personal reasons.

   600.3. Arrangements for and conduct of transfers shall be in accordance with
   standard government travel regulations.

   600.4. The Department of Human Services shall, upon receipt of proper
   authorization, transfer to the state of legal residence at District expense
   those patients in the Psychiatric Department of D. C. General Hospital or
   Saint Elizabeths Hospital who are found to be on elopement or parole status
   from state hospitals in other jurisdictions, if the investigation discloses no
   other practicable source of defraying the cost.

   600.5. Relatives of patients shall be given written notice of transfer as far
   in advance of departure as possible. Special attention shall be given to
   relatives within the Washington D.C. area to allow them time for visiting
   patient before transfer.

   600.6. Prior to the transfer of a patient admitted to the hospital through
   police action, the Department worker assigned responsibility for the trip
   shall contact the Property Clerk of the Police Department to determine whether
   he or she is holding any property which ought to be transported with the
   patient. If property is being held by the Registrar of Saint Elizabeths
   Hospital, he or she shall be given advance notice of the transfer.

   600.7. No client shall be transported under compulsion with the exception of
   non-resident persons who come within the scope of a District law or regulation
   requiring their confinement.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 72-29, published at 19 DCR 450 (December 26, 1972).
