                                  DC REGULATIONS

AVAILABLE MODES OF TRAVEL (ยง 29-602)

602.1. Travel shall be limited where possible to the use of a public common
   carrier and shall be planned by the most economical usually traveled route
   except where official necessity for travel by another route can be justified.

   602.2. An attendant shall be accountable for any re-routing contrary to
   government travel regulation or the interests of the District.

   602.3. The hire of a special conveyance shall be allowed only where a public
   carrier is not available or cannot be used advantageously in the interests of
   the District. A satisfactory written explanation of the need for special
   conveyance shall be required of the attendant at the conclusion of the trip.

   602.4. Only persons authorized by the District shall be eligible to receive
   reimbursement for use of a privately-owned automobile for transporting
   clients. These persons shall then be eligible only if the automobile used is
   sufficiently covered by bodily-injury and property damage liability insurance,
   currently in force. Each insurance policy, as well as each renewal, shall be
   submitted to the Medical Assistance Division for examination and recording.

   602.5. Through tickets, excursion tickets, or reduced round-trip tickets shall
   be secured whenever practicable and economical.

   602.6. In event of an emergency en-route, such as a missed connection or a
   change in service, the attendant shall consult the nearest passenger
   representative, ticket agent, Travelers Aid worker, or other qualified
   individual for assistance with revised trip plan. The attendant shall keep the
   type of accommodation as nearly as possible in conformity with accommodations
   originally provided.

   602.7. An attendant who is required to leave a train, bus, airplane, or other
   conveyance short of the ticketed destination, or whose trip is interrupted
   after having surrendered a ticket (or coupon of ticket), shall obtain a
   statement of facts from the train conductor or person in charge of the
   conveyance. The statement, with a description of the accommodations furnished
   upon resumption of travel, shall be submitted to the Division upon conclusion
   of the trip.

   602.8. The unused portion of tickets shall be returned to the Department for
   redemption. An attendant shall not attempt to secure a refund directly from a
   transportation company for any unused portion of a ticket obtained on a
   government travel request.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 72-29, published at 19 DCR 450 (December 26, 1972).
