                                  DC REGULATIONS

UNUSUAL INCIDENTS RELATED TO TRAVEL (ยง 29-603)

603.1. A written report by the attendant shall be made of any unusual incident
   in any way affecting the person or property of the client in custody, or of
   other, and submitted to the Division for review and filing.

   603.2. If a client sustains injury or becomes ill en-route the attendant shall
   secure the nearest available medical aid. In event of an appreciable delay
   caused by illness or accident en-route the Department shall be notified. A
   written report of the incident, in detail, shall be submitted by the attendant
   on return.

   603.3. The attendant shall be assigned to a transfer for the purpose of caring
   for the client en-route and to provide for the client&#8217;s assured arrival
   at the destination. If a client absconds, the attendant shall notify the agent
   in charge of the carrier and the nearest local police authority, furnishing to
   each any details which are required.

   603.4. After a patient absconds, unless specifically directed in writing by
   the local police to remain in the jurisdiction, the attendant, after
   contacting the Division, shall return to the District.

   603.5. A statement containing dates, length of stay, and other pertinent
   information furnished by the authorities shall be presented by the attendant
   on return.

   603.6. Each attendant, upon return to the District, shall present to the
   Division, for the information of the Director, a separate statement giving all
   pertinent facts of the case up to the time of his or her departure from the
   locale of the escape.

   603.7. Any property belonging to an escapee shall be returned to the District
   for proper disposition by the Department.

   603.8. If a client dies while en-route to the destination, the attendant shall
   immediately inform the responsible agent of the carrier, or some responsible
   official of the state, community, or area in which the death occurred. The
   attendant shall comply and cooperate with demands of these officials.

   603.9. As soon as pertinent facts are learned regarding procedures and
   responsibilities of the attendant, he or she shall contact the Division for
   instruction. Notes shall be carefully kept of all pertinent facts and a report
   in detail submitted upon return.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 72-29, published at 19 DCR 450 (December 26, 1972).
