                                  DC REGULATIONS

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES AND PER DIEM (ยง 29-604)

604.1. The attendant shall be granted a per diem allowance instead of
   subsistence in accordance with prevailing established rates while traveling on
   official business. The allowance shall be computed on a twenty-four (24) hour
   travel day.

   604.2. For continuous travel of more than twenty-four (24) hours, the calendar
   day (midnight to midnight) shall be the unit, and for fractional parts of a
   day at the commencement or ending of continuous travel, constituting a travel
   period, one-fourth (1/4) of the rate for a calendar day shall be allowed for
   each period of six (6) hours or fraction of six (6) hours.

   604.3. For continuous travel less than twenty-four (24) hours, constituting a
   travel period, the period shall be regarded as commencing with the beginning
   of the travel and ending with the completion of the travel. For each six (6)
   hour portion of the period or fraction of a six (6) hour period, one-fourth
   (1/4) of the rate for a calendar day shall be allowed; Provided, that no per
   diem shall be allowed when the departure is after 8:00 a.m. and the return on
   the same day is prior to 6:00 p.m., or for any absence not exceeding three (3)
   hours.

   604.4. Per diem allowances shall be computed as beginning at the time of
   departure of carrier from its District terminus (railroad station, bus depot,
   airport) and ending at the arrival time of carrier on return to its District
   terminus.

   604.5. Per diem allowance to an attendant authorized by the Mayor to use a
   privately-owned automobile for transportation shall be computed as beginning
   at time of departure from and return to the District line.

   604.6. The per diem allowance shall include all expenses of the attendant
   including meals, hotel room, all tips to waiters, porters, and similar
   expenses.

   604.7. Any justifiable expenses allowable under the government travel
   regulations incurred by the attendant on behalf of a client being transported
   shall be reimbursable upon proper presentation of expense account.

   604.8. Persons authorized by the Mayor to use privately-owned automobile for
   transportation shall be reimbursed on the basis of mileage instead of actual
   cost at the prevailing established rate. Odometer recording of mileage shall
   be kept for submission with expense account at conclusion of trip.

   604.9. The attendant shall give a notarized statement based on a record kept
   by him or her itemizing reimbursable expenses incurred. A receipt containing
   signature of payee will be required for any item in excess of three dollars
   ($3).

   604.10. A copy of any necessary telegrams sent by the attendent while on a
   trip shall be furnished and cost of the telegram certified by the telegraph
   office.

   604.11. In the event of a necessary long distance call while on a trip, the
   attendant shall first request the telephone operator to contact the District
   government chief operator in an attempt to have the charge accepted. When a
   collect call cannot be made, a statement of the cost of the call (including
   number of minutes) shall be required for inclusion in the attendant&#8217;s
   statement of expenses.

   604.12. In the event of emergency where an attendant is required to call the
   Division for instructions, he or she shall endeavor to have the charge
   accepted by the District government chief operator.

   604.13. An attendant shall be required to bear the responsibility and cost of
   any expense incurred contrary to government travel regulations or other
   District regulations.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 72-29, published at 19 DCR 450 (December 26, 1972).
