                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 4-1226)

1226.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Administrative Hearing &#8211; a hearing before any governmental or
   administrative agency, or before an administrative law judge.
   
   
   
   Agency &#8211; a designated District of Columbia entity which has specified
   functions and/or provides particular services to the public.
   
   
   
   Baseline Assessment &#8211; a collection of data regarding specific
   characteristics of a covered entity as of the date the Language Access Act
   becomes effective for that entity.
   
   
   
   Biennial Language Access Plan (BLAP) &#8211; a two-year mandatory compliance
   plan for each covered entity with major public contact that is to be revised
   and published in the D.C. Register biennially by the entity.
   
   
   
   Bilingual Employee &#8211; an employee who is assessed and certified as
   “proficient” in both the English language and a language other than
   English by DCHR or the personnel authority of the entity in which he/she is
   employed should the entity not fall under DCHR’s purview.
   
   
   
   Complainant &#8211; an individual, group of individuals, or organization(s)
   who brings or files a public complaint alleging violations of the Language
   Access Act against an agency, generally titled the respondent.
   
   
   
   Consultative Agencies &#8211; is as collective term used to refer to the
   Mayor’s Offices on African Affairs, Asian Pacific Islander Affairs, and
   Latino Affairs. These agencies are referred to in the Act as government
   offices that conduct outreach to communities with LEP/NEP populations
   
   
   
   D.C. Language Access Coalition &#8211; the established alliance of diverse
   community-based organizations in the District that work with the District
   government to foster and promote the civil rights of immigrant and LEP/NEP
   communities by advocating for meaningful language access within the District.
   
   
   
   Formal Complaint &#8211; means a docketed public complaint that is being
   investigated for systemic language access noncompliance.
   
   
   
   Interpretation &#8211; oral/verbal conversion of the meaning of a dialogue
   from one language to another language and vice versa. There are three (3)
   types of interpretation:
   
   
   
   Sight translation &#8211; an interpreter reads a document written in one
   language and translates it orally into another language.
   
   
   
   Consecutive interpretation &#8211; an interpreter translates a speaker’s
   words orally after the foreign language speaker has stopped speaking.
   
   
   
   Simultaneous interpretation &#8211; an interpreter speaks simultaneously with
   the source language speaker.
   
   
   
   Limited English Proficient (LEP) &#8211; means individuals who do not speak
   English as their primary language and who have a limited ability to read,
   speak, write, or understand English.
   
   
   
   Linguistic and Cultural Competency Training &#8211; training that educates,
   informs, instructs or guides agency staff on how to provide readily available,
   culturally appropriate oral and written language services to LEP/NEP
   individuals through such means as bilingual/bicultural staff, trained
   interpreters, and qualified translators.
   
   
   
   Non-English Proficient (NEP) &#8211; persons who cannot speak or understand
   the English language at any level.
   
   
   
   Oral Language Services &#8211; the provision of oral information necessary to
   enable LEP/NEP individuals to access or participate in programs or services
   offered by a covered entity. The types of oral language services include:
   
   
   
   Commercial Interpretation Services: Professional businesses that offer oral
   interpretation as part of their array of services
   
   
   
   Community Interpretation Services: Community interpreters are members of a
   given language community who serve as liaisons between monolingual speakers of
   their native language and English.
   
   
   
   Multilingual Telephonic Interpretation Services: An over-the-phone
   interpretation service that provides professionally trained and qualified
   interpreters in various languages.
   
   
   
   Staff Interpreter: An employee who has been trained and proven competence in
   interpretation. Certification, training, or assessments indicate the
   employee’s proficiency as an interpreter.
   
   
   
   Bilingual employee.
   
   
   
   Party &#8211; the individual, group of individuals, or organization(s) named
   in a public complaint charging noncompliance with the Language Access Act, and
   is generally the complainant or the respondent.
   
   
   
   Personnel Authority &#8211; The District’s Department of Human Resources or
   individual departments within covered entities with independent hiring
   authority responsible for human resource matters, including, but not limited
   to hiring, compensation and promotion.
   
   
   
   Public Complaint &#8211; an administrative complaint filed under the rules of
   procedure established by Section 6(b)(2) of the Act , the LA Director or OHR,
   and § 1217 of the Language Access Act municipal regulations, which is filed
   by a person or organization claiming lack of access to a covered entity(ies)
   services due to significant language barriers posed by the entity(ies) in
   violation of the Language Access Act.
   
   
   
   Public Contact Position &#8211; position in a covered entity for which the
   primary responsibilities include greeting, meeting, serving or providing
   information or services to the public. These are positions that require
   personal contacts with the public, community and civic organizations, or any
   combination of these groups.
   
   
   
   Public Meeting &#8211; a meeting scheduled by a covered entity and a LEP/NEP
   community to allow for input or feedback from community members on issues of
   interest relating to the Language Access Act and service(s) provided by the
   entity.
   
   
   
   Respondent &#8211; The respondent agency against whom the complainant files a
   public complaint charging noncompliance with the Language Access Act
   
   
   
   Translation &#8211; the written conversion of texts in the source language
   into texts written in the target language, retaining the meaning and intent of
   the original source text and producing a culturally competent product. All
   translators providing translation services to the District must be certified
   and/or otherwise qualified.
   
   
   
   Vital documents &#8211; applications and their instructions, notices,
   complaint forms, legal contracts, correspondence, and outreach materials
   published by a covered entity in a tangible format, including but not limited
   to those which inform individuals about their rights and responsibilities or
   eligibility requirements for benefits and participation, as well as documents
   that pertain to the health and safety of the public. The term &#8220;vital
   documents&#8221; shall include tax-related educational and outreach materials
   produced by the Office of Tax and Revenue, but shall not include tax forms and
   instructions.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 6348 (June 6, 2008).
