                                  DC REGULATIONS

BIENNIAL LANGUAGE ACCESS PLAN (§ 4-1213)

1213.1. A covered entity with major public contact shall establish a biennial
   language access plan (“BLAP”) by regulation. Each BLAP shall be
   established in consultation with:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Language Access Director;
   
   
   
   (b)	The D.C. Language Access Coalition;
   
   
   
   (c)	The entity’s Language Access Coordinator;
   
   
   
   (d)	The entity’s Director; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Consultative agencies.

   1213.2. Each BLAP shall be updated every two (2) fiscal years and shall set
   forth, at a minimum, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The types of oral language services that the entity will provide and how
   the determination was reached;
   
   
   
   (b)	The titles and types of each translated document that the entity will
   provide and how the determination was reached;
   
   
   
   (c)	The total number of public contact positions in the entity and the number
   of bilingual employees in public contact positions, including languages
   spoken;
   
   
   
   (d)	The number, position, and location of bilingual employees the entity plans
   to hire in public contact positions;
   
   
   
   (e)	An evaluation and assessment of the adequacy of services to be provided,
   including mechanisms used to assess adequacy;
   
   
   
   (f)	A description of the budgetary sources specifying the various resources
   and expenditures upon which the covered entity intends to implement its BLAP;
   
   
   
   (g)	A plan to conduct outreach to the District’s LEP/NEP communities served
   or likely to be served by the covered entity; and
   
   
   
   (h)	A plan to conduct cultural and linguistic competency trainings within the
   designated BLAP period to the entity’s staff who fill public contact
   positions.

   1213.3. The LA Director shall meet with each LAC and respective agency
   director to review agency plans prior to approval of the BLAP.

   1213.4. BLAPs shall be completed by the covered entity with major public
   contact and approved by the LA Director upon completion of the baseline
   assessments.

   1213.5. BLAPs shall be completed by the covered entity with major public
   contact, within a reasonable deadline established and approved by the LA
   Director. Failure to submit BLAPs in a timely manner shall be reported to the
   Director of OHR and shall be included in the Director’s annual report to the
   OCA. Failure to fulfill the criteria set forth by 1213.2 may also be reported
   to the Director OHR.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 6348 (June 6, 2008).
