                                  DC REGULATIONS

ROLES OF COVERED ENTITIES (§ 4-1205)

1205.1. Pursuant to Section 2(2) of the Act, covered entities are any District
   government agency, department, or program that furnishes information or
   renders services, programs, or activities directly to the public or contracts
   with other entities, either directly or indirectly, to conduct programs,
   services or activities to the public.

   1205.2. The covered entity shall ensure that contractors hired to carry out
   services, programs or activities directly to the public are required to comply
   with the same requirements of covered entities.

   1205.3. The covered entity shall ensure that any grantee that provides
   services under a covered entity’ mandate complies with the requirements of
   the Act.

   1205.4. The covered entity shall require that contractors and grantees, as
   described in 1205.2 and 1205.3, certify that the same compliance requirements
   will be satisfied by their subcontractors and sub-grantees.

   1205.5. Covered entities are distinguished from covered entities with major
   public contact, as described in § 1206.

   1205.6. The covered entity shall annually collect data about the languages
   spoken and the number of LEP/NEP customers speaking a given language in the
   population served by updating its databases and tracking applications to
   contain fields that will capture this information.

   1205.7. The covered entity shall determine its target language requirements
   for its LEP/NEP customers to access or participate in the services, programs,
   or activities they offer, based on the following factors and as determined by
   § 1205.6 and Section 3(c)(1) of the Act:
   
   
   
   (a)	The number or proportion of LEP/NEP persons of the population served or
   encountered by the covered entity;
   
   
   
   (b)	The frequency with which LEP/NEP individuals come into contact with the
   covered entity;
   
   
   
   (c)	The importance of the service provided by the covered entity; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The resources available to the covered entity.

   1205.8. To the extent that a covered entity requires additional personnel to
   meet the target language requirements of the entity’s LEP/NEP constituency,
   it shall, in consultation with its personnel authority, give preference to
   hiring qualified bilingual personnel into existing budgeted vacant public
   contact positions.

   1205.9. The covered entity shall maintain a current account with a
   professional and qualified multilingual telephonic interpretation service that
   provides immediate oral language services to LEP/NEP customers and District
   staff in a variety of languages.

   1205.10. The covered entity shall ensure that the telephone interpretation
   service assists in providing access to customers who are both within and
   outside of LEP/NEP target languages as determined under § 1205.7.

   1205.11. The covered entity shall train all staff members in public contact
   positions on the usage of professional and qualified multilingual telephonic
   interpretation services and how to appropriately direct LEP/NEP customers to
   such services.

   1205.12. Appropriate signs/posters communicating the availability of language
   accessible services shall be placed at all conspicuous points of entry and
   other public locations at the covered entity. The signs or posters shall be in
   the language(s) that constitutes 3% or 500 individuals, whichever is less, of
   the population served or encountered by the covered entity.

   1205.13. When the services described in § 1205.9 are not reasonably
   sufficient to allow access to the services provided by the covered entity, the
   entity shall provide qualified and experienced in-person interpretation
   services to LEP/NEP customers in the entity’s target languages, as
   determined under § 1205.7.

   1205.14. The covered entity shall provide oral language services to LEP/NEP
   customers who seek to access or participate in public meetings and
   administrative hearings conducted by the covered entity, provided that the
   request is received by the covered entity within five (5) business days of the
   meeting or hearing.

   1205.15. Requests for oral language services in advance of public meetings or
   hearings shall be made directly to the entity’s Language Access Coordinator,
   as described in § 1207, in person, via phone, or by electronic mail.

   1205.16. The covered entity shall provide written translation of vital
   documents into any non-English language spoken by a LEP/NEP population that
   constitutes 3% or 500 individuals, whichever is less, of the population served
   or encountered by the covered entity.

   1205.17. The covered entity shall ensure that all vital documents that are
   translated into any non-English language spoken by a LEP/NEP population are
   widely distributed within the agency, accessible at points of entry, and
   available online.

   1205.18. The covered entity must also obtain written acknowledgment from each
   LEP/NEP customer who waives his/her rights to interpretation or translation
   services prior to the individual accessing the entity’s services.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 6348 (June 6, 2008).
