                                  DC REGULATIONS

WATER METERS (§ 21-302)

302.1. The supply of water to any premises, fountain or other automatic
   fixture shall be determined by meter in accordance with the provisions of this
   chapter and shall be paid for in accordance with rates, fees and charges
   established by the Authority.

   302.2. No water from the mains operated by the Authority shall be introduced
   onto or used on premises which are supplied through a water meter or meters
   except water which passes through that (those) meter(s).

   302.3. The supply of water to any portion of any premises, for any purpose,
   shall be determined by a meter or meters, which has (have) been determined
   suitable for such purpose by the Authority.

   302.4. The listing of certain premises on a schedule of rates does not exempt
   those premises from the requirements of the law or these regulations with
   regard to the use of meters.

   302.5. The General Manager may authorize a property owner, occupant or
   consumer to install a meter. If such authorization is given, the property
   owner, occupant or consumer shall be responsible for all costs of
   installation, and inspection. Meters that are installed shall meet all
   specifications, requirements and procedures that are Imposed or made
   applicable by the General Manager.

   302.6. The necessary meter setters, similar devices and appurtenances may be
   provided, erected, and maintained by the owner, occupant or consumer at the
   owner, occupant or consumer&#8217;s expense unless the owner, occupant or
   consumer and the General Manager agree that the General Manager shall erect,
   provide or maintain such setters devices or appurtenances.

   302.7. All meters shall be installed under the supervision of the General
   Manager and shall be installed so that they or the data collected by them can
   be easily examined or read.

   302.8. In case of violation of any of the requirements of this chapter, or of
   denial of free access to premises to inspectors or other persons entitled to
   access, or of tampering or interfering in any way with water meters data
   collection devices, transmitters or appurtenances, the supply of water shall
   be stopped and the supply shall not be restored for use of that consumer
   except upon payment of the cost actually incurred in shutting off and
   restoring the water supply.

   302.9. Any person, who in the General Manager&#8217;s sole judgement causes
   damage to meters shall be responsible for the payment to the Authority for all
   damage to the water meter and resulting costs to the Authority. The water
   meter shall be shut off and not cut on until all costs incurred by the
   Authority and damages to the meter and associated devices and equipment, as
   determined by the General Manager, are paid.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 12 DCRR §§402.2(a)-c). 402.2 (f), 402.2(m), 402.2(s) (October
   1981); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 782(January 24,
   2003).
