                                  DC REGULATIONS

METER SETTERS AND CONNECTIONS (§ 21-301)

301.1. A meter setter and other approved fittings designed to receive a water
   meter, shall be a part of the water supply system of all buildings and are to
   be provided by the owners, the owners agent, the builder, the occupant or the
   consumer.

   301.2. The General Manager may install a meter setter or other approved
   fittings designed to receive a water meter and may recover all costs of such
   installation by agreements with consumers. In cases where special costs of
   installation are recovered through agreements with consumers, the General
   Manager shall identify all costs of installation in advance of installation.

   301.3. The meter setter or other similar device shall be set in a horizontal
   position and shall be connected to the water service by risers of brass pipe
   or copper tubing so that the inlet and outlet of the appliance where the water
   meter is to be installed shall be at least eighteen inches (18 in.) below the
   permanent surface of the ground, as indicated on Drawing No.G-815.

   301.4. With the exception of a stop valve, no other outlet will be permitted
   between the meter setter and the water main in the street.

   301.5. The Authority may permit the installation of a meter setter or other
   similar device in a cellar or basement; provided, that the meter setter or
   other similar device shall be installed in a horizontal position adjacent to
   the wall where the water service enters the building, or at such other
   location as may be approved by the General Manager and shall be placed so that
   at all times it will be unobstructed and there will be easy access for
   examination, reading data transmission and replacement.

   301.6. Whenever water is introduced into a new building, a registered or
   licensed plumber, who shall be retained by the owner, owner&#8217;s agent,
   builder, occupant or consumer shall be responsible for ascertaining permanent
   grade, attaching the meter setter to the service pipe, making a suitable
   opening for the placement of meter housing, in accordance with the
   Authority&#8217;s requirements. The registered or licensed plumber shall
   provide at least 3- business days&#8217; notice to the Customer Service
   Department for the Authority to install meter(s). The General Manager may
   waive all or any portion of this notice.

   301.7. Persons who install meter setters and other approved fittings, shall
   comply with all plumbing code and WASA permit requirements.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 12 DCRR §§4031 through 403.4 (October 1981); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 782(January 24, 2003); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 781(January 16, 2004).
