                                  DC REGULATIONS

METER READING AND BILLING (§ 21-308)

308.1. Meters shall be read quarterly or at such other times as the General
   Manager shall determine.

   308.2. The General Manager shall determine the schedule upon which bills shall
   be rendered and may establish and implement a monthly billing cycle or such
   other billing cycle deemed, in his sole discretion, appropriate to meet the
   needs of the Authority. An Owner may request a monthly billing cycle with no
   additional charge from the Authority provided an AMR meter is installed at the
   location for which the change in cycle is requested.

   308.3. If free access to the premises cannot be gained for the purpose of
   reading a District or Privately-owned meter at the interval(s) determined by
   the General Manager under this chapter, the water charge for that interval or
   succeeding intervals shall be based on the average previous consumption for
   that interval until access can be gained and actual consumption determined by
   meter readings.

   308.4. If at any time, a meter, data collection device or transmitter fails to
   register correctly or collect, deliver or transmit data or otherwise operate
   or bears evidence of having been tampered with, as determined by qualified
   personnel of the Authority, the water charge for the interval in which the
   incident occurred shall be based on the average previous water consumption for
   that interval.

   308.5. In case of excessive water consumption seemingly due to invisible
   leakage from an underground service pipe on either public or private property
   between the meter and fixtures, the General Manager is authorized to make
   adjustment of the water bill; provided, that the following conditions and
   requirements are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	There has been no negligence on the part of the owners in notifying the
   Authority of unusual conditions indicative of waste of water;
   
   
   
   (b)	Upon ascertaining the existence of an invisible leak, the owner has taken
   prompt steps to have the leak repaired;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Authority has been notified immediately, and notification was made
   prior to repairs when the leak is exposed;
   
   
   
   (d)	Repairs have been made by a registered plumber and approved by the Chief,
   Plumbing Inspection Branch, Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs
   (DCRA) or his or her lawful successor;
   
   
   
   (e)	The request for adjustment is made to the Authority within thirty (30)
   days of the date of rendition of a water bill after the leak has been
   repaired; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Form SE-138, or other documentation acceptable to the Authority shall be
   furnished to the Authority. The form or other documentation shall be completed
   in full, signed by the owner of the premises or the owner&#8217;s agent, and
   certified by the plumber making repairs.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 12 DCRR §§402.2(h-1) and 402.2(w) (October 1981); as amended by
   Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 782(January 24, 2003).
