                                  DC REGULATIONS

MAINTENANCE OF METER SETTERS, OTHER SIMILAR DEVICES AND APPURTENANCES (§
21-304)

304.1. Consumers are required to keep their meter setters, other similar
   devices and appurtenances in good repair and to protect them against frost and
   injury of any kind at their own expense.

   304.2. Any person who tampers with or who causes damage to a water meter shall
   be responsible for all costs incurred by the Authority in repairing such
   tampering or damage.

   304.3. In case of deficient supply through water meters or of any other cause
   for complaint, reports should be made to the Department of Customer Service of
   the Authority so that the difficulty may be investigated.

   304.4. Water meters and appurtenances shall not be removed, repaired, or in
   any manner tampered with, except in accordance with a permit which has been
   issued by the Authority.

   304.5. If a meter is removed for any cause, the Authority will cause the
   installation of another meter to be put in its place and shall charge the
   consumer the full cost of such replacement and installation.

   304.6. Each water meter shall be inspected periodically by representatives of
   the Authority. Inspection shall be conducted in accordance with standards
   determined to be appropriate by the General Manager.

   304.7. Any water meter may be removed by the General Manager for preventive
   maintenance, testing repair, or replacement at any time, in the discretion of
   the General Manager.

   304.8. The General Manager may under conditions determined appropriate by the
   General Manager, offer a property owner the option of arranging with a
   licensed plumber to remove a water meter and deliver it to the Authority for
   testing and repair.

   304.9. If the General Manager determines that conditions exist (such as lack
   of access, faulty pipes, or other obstacles) that prevent the Authority from
   inspecting, removing, reading, testing, accessing or repairing a meter or
   receiving transmissions from any consumption measuring device or meter, the
   Authority may direct the correction of the condition at the property
   owner&#8217;s sole expense. The Authority may:
   
   
   
   (a)	Require the property owner to correct the conditions within 14 days after
   receiving written notification,
   
   
   
   (b)	Fix the problem and charge the property owner, the appropriate labor
   access charge,
   
   
   
   (c)	Replace the meter.

   304.10. The General Manager shall assess fees to the property owner to recover
   the costs incurred by the Authority for all services performed under this
   chapter. All fees shall be paid to the District of Columbia Water and Sewer
   Authority. Fees due under this section shall be paid within thirty (30) days
   of the date of the bill. Failure to pay fees on time may result in the denial
   of water to the premises concerned. The General Manager may shut off service
   to any property if any fee or charge is not paid within thirty (30) days of
   the date of the bill for such fee or charge.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 12 DCRR §§402.2(g) and 402.2(p) (October 1981); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 1300, 1305 (February 12, 1993); as amended by
   Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 782(January 24, 2003).
