                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROCEDURES FOR THE REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS FOR INITIAL SOLID WASTE FACILITY
PERMITS AND THE ISSUANCE OF INTERIM OPERATING PERMITS (§ 21-731)

731.1. Upon receipt of an application for a solid waste facility permit, the
   Director shall review the application for completeness.

   731.2. The Director shall return an incomplete solid waste facility permit
   application and shall identify the specific portions of the application which
   require completion and give a date certain (not less than ten (10) days) by
   which the application must be completed. If the applicant does not complete
   the application within the time provided, the application shall be deemed to
   be withdrawn by the applicant. The Director shall return the application fee,
   less a three hundred dollars ($300) processing charge within ninety (90) days
   of the applicant&#8217;s failure to complete the application.

   731.3. If an application was submitted on behalf of an existing facility on or
   before June 30, 1995, and the application meets the requirements for
   completeness in effect on that date, the Director shall do the following;
   
   
   
   (a)	Issue an interim operating permit to the facility; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Publish a notice in the District of Columbia Register which shall contain
   the information described in §§730.3 (a) through (g).

   731.4. No person may operate a solid waste facility under the authority of an
   interim operating permit unless the facility is in compliance with applicable
   environmental, health, safety, and zoning laws, rules, and regulations and has
   obtained all required permits, licenses, and certificates.

   731.5. If an application for a new facility meets the requirement for
   completeness, the Director shall publish a notice in the District of Columbia
   Register which shall contain the information described in §§730.3 (a)
   through (g).

   731.6. Public comments concerning an application shall be submitted in writing
   to the Director within thirty (30) days following publication of the notice
   required by §§731.3 and 731.5.

   731.7. Following the issuance of an interim operating permit, the Director
   shall inspect the facility.

   731.8. The Director shall circulate the notice required by §§731.3(b) and
   731.5 to the Fire and Emergency Medical Services, the Department of Public
   Works, the Office of Tax and Revenue, the Zoning Commission, the Department of
   Public Health, and to any other District agency as the Director believes is
   necessary, along with a request that the recipients inform the Director within
   forty-five (45) days whether the proposed or existing solid waste facility is
   in compliance with applicable environmental, health, safety, and zoning laws,
   rules, and regulations.

   731.9. The Director shall send a copy of the notice provided for in
   §§731.3(b) and 731.5 to the Advisory Neighborhood Commission whose area
   would be affected by the approval or denial of the application.

   731.10. To be considered, the comments of the affected Advisory Neighborhood
   Commission shall be received by the Director thirty (30) days from the date
   the notice was sent.

   731.11. The Director may hold a public meeting to receive comments from the
   local community concerning the application, and the terms and conditions under
   which the facility should operate if the application is granted. If requested
   by the Director, a representative of the applicant shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Attend the public meeting;
   
   
   
   (b)	Make an oral presentation; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Respond to questions.

   731.12. If, upon review of an application, or of comments made by the public,
   a District agency, or the affected Advisory Neighborhood Commission, the
   Director determines that additional information is necessary in order to
   determine whether the application should be granted, the Director shall inform
   the applicant, in writing, of the information required, and shall specify the
   time within which the information must be submitted.

   731.13. Applicants shall be given a minimum of ten (10) working days to submit
   the additional information requested pursuant to §731.12.

   731.14. Failure of the applicant to provide the additional information
   required by the Director within the time specified in §731.13 shall result in
   the denial of the application.

   731.15. The Director shall not grant an application for a solid waste facility
   permit unless the applicant proves that an existing facility meets, or that a
   proposed facility will meet, the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	The construction and operation of the solid waste facility shall be in
   full compliance with all applicable environmental, health, safety, and zoning
   laws, rules, and regulations;
   
   
   
   (b)	The construction and operation of the solid waste facility shall not
   endanger human health, the public welfare, or the environment;
   
   
   
   (c)	A certificate of occupancy has been issued for the facility which plainly
   describes the use of the facility as a solid waste handling facility, or such
   other description as may be required by the Zoning Commission or the Board of
   Zoning Adjustment, except that the Director shall not deny an application of
   an existing facility solely on the basis that there is no certificate of
   occupancy which satisfies this requirement, if the applicant proves that it
   has submitted an application for a certificate of occupancy which would
   satisfy this requirement and the application is pending before the zoning
   authority. If the Board of Zoning Adjustment determines not to allow the use,
   the Director shall revoke the interim operating permit and deny the
   application for a solid waste facility permit;
   
   
   
   (d)	Areas where solid waste is or will be handled, deposited, placed,
   processed, or disposed, shall meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	Be fully enclosed;
   
   
   
   (2)	Have impermeable floors;
   
   
   
   (3)	[Reserved]
   
   
   
   (4)	[Reserved]
   
   
   
   (5)	[Reserved]
   
   
   
   (6)	Be equipped with a ventilation system which meets the following minimum
   requirements:
   
   
   
   (A)	The ventilation system must draw outside air through windows, doors, truck
   bays and other building openings and subsequently exhaust it through a vent on
   the roof of the facility;
   
   
   
   (B)	The ventilation system must operate at a ventilation rate, cubic feet of
   air per minute, to ensure that outside air is drawn through windows, doors,
   truck bays and other building openings and subsequently exhausted through a
   vent on the roof of the facility;
   
   
   
   (C)	The top of the ventilation vent must be at least six (6) feet above roof
   line or two feet (2 ft.) taller than any neighboring building within ten feet
   (10 ft.) of the solid waste facility; and
   
   
   
   (D)	Air moving through the ventilation system shall move through air or dust
   collectors and other equipment necessary to remove particulate matter and
   malodorous by-products;
   
   
   
   (7)	An existing facility applicant shall have ninety (90) days following the
   publication date of the Notice of Final Rulemaking for this section in the
   D.C. Register to meet the requirements of §§731.15(d) (3)-(6);
   
   
   
   (e)	The proposed solid waste facility shall be constructed, or an existing
   facility shall be modified, so as to prevent disease vectors from entering the
   building through the facility&#8217;s foundation, roof, exterior walls, doors,
   or conduits;
   
   
   
   (f)	The insurance policies are valid and meet the requirements of §730.3(v);
   and
   
   
   
   (g)	An Environmental Mitigation &#8211; Closure Performance Bond has been
   issued to the solid waste facility pursuant to §730.3(u);

   731.16. If the Director determines that the applicant has met all the
   requirements set forth in §731.15, the Director may issue a permit to the
   applicant.

   731.17. If the Director determines that the application does not satisfy one
   or more of the requirements set forth in §731.15, the Director shall provide
   the applicant with a proposed written decision denying the application which
   states the grounds for the denial, including a specific description of the
   condition, deficiency, or violation of law which furnished the basis of the
   denial.

   731.18. At any time during the ninety-day (90) period following the issuance
   of the proposed decision, the applicant, without waiving its appeal rights,
   may provide the Director with written proof that the condition, deficiency or
   violation of law which was the basis of the denial has been cured. In the
   alternative, an existing facility may request the Director, in writing, to
   conduct a random inspection of the facility.

   731.19. If the applicant has failed to submit the written proof or the written
   request for inspection referred to in §731.18 within the time prescribed by
   that subsection, or if the Director finds, following a review of the written
   submission or an inspection of the solid waste facility, that the condition,
   deficiency, or violation of law which furnished the basis of the denial has
   not been cured, the Director shall inform the applicant in writing that the
   denial of its application is final, advise the applicant of its right to a
   hearing under the Act, and shall refund ninety percent (90%) of the
   application fee.

   731.20. If the Director determines that the condition, deficiency or violation
   of law which furnished the basis of the denial has been cured, the Director
   may grant the application.

   731.21. An interim operating permit issued to an existing facility shall
   become invalid on the date on which the Director grants or denies the
   facility&#8217;s application for a solid waste facility permit, unless it has
   been previously revoked pursuant to §738.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 6816, 6820 (December 20, 1996);
   §3(b) of the Department of Public Health Establishment Act of 1992, D.C. Law
   9181, 39 DCR 8203 (November 13, 1992).
   
   
   
   	EDITOR&#8217;S NOTE: The Office of the Chief Financial Officer of the
   District of Columbia published a Notice of Interest, at 44 DCR 2345 (April 18,
   1997) changing the name of the Department of Finance and Revenue to the Office
   of Tax and Revenue.
