                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPORTING REQUIREMENTS (§ 21-737)

737.1. Owners and operators of solid waste facilities shall, for each facility
   owned or operated, submit a written report to the Department of Public Works
   on the tenth (10th) day every month. If the tenth (10th) day falls on a
   Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the report shall be due on the next business day
   following the tenth (10th) day. The report shall be on a form which may be
   obtained at the Department of Public Works, and shall contain the following
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The solid waste facility&#8217;s name, address and telephone number;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name and title of the person completing the form;
   
   
   
   (c)	With respect to all solid waste and recyclable material delivered to the
   solid waste facility between the first and last day of the preceding month:
   
   
   
   (1)	The total tonnage of solid waste and recyclable material generated in the
   District of Columbia delineated by waste and material type; and
   
   
   
   (2)	The total tonnage of solid waste and recyclable material generated outside
   the District of Columbia delineated by waste and material type;
   
   
   
   (d)	With respect to all recyclable material transferred from the solid waste
   facility between the first and last day of the preceding month:
   
   
   
   (1)	The total tonnage of recyclable material transferred from the solid waste
   facility by material type; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Location, by facility name and address, where each type of material was
   reused or recycled;
   
   
   
   (e)	As to all solid waste transferred from the solid waste facility between
   the first and last day of the preceding month:
   
   
   
   (1)	The total tonnage of solid waste transferred from the solid waste facility
   by waste type;
   
   
   
   (2)	Location, by facility name and address, where each type of waste was
   disposed; and
   
   
   
   (3)	The tonnage of the solid waste disposed within each State and facility
   identified in response to subparagraph (e)(2) of this subsection.

   737.2. The monthly tonnage reports shall be submitted on forms provided by the
   Department of Public Works, be based upon actual daily scale records
   maintained by the solid waste facility operator, and shall include a
   certification of accuracy signed by the owner or operator of the solid waste
   facility.

   737.3. The submission of an incomplete, misleading, or false monthly report
   shall be considered a failure to submit a report in violation of the Act.

   737.4. The submission of a monthly report does not relieve a permittee from
   the obligation to update information on file with the Director as required by
   §§730.4, 734.12 and 735.8.

   737.5. The solid waste facility operator shall retain a copy of all daily
   scale data at the facility for a minimum of three (3) years.

   737.6. The provisions of §730.5 shall apply to written reports submitted
   pursuant to this section.

   737.7. The facility shall pay the solid waste facility charge in conjunction
   with the submittal of its monthly report by a check or money order payable to
   the D.C. Treasurer.

   737.8. Except as provided in §737.9, the facility shall pay a sum equal to
   the amount of solid waste deposited or delivered to the facility during the
   preceding month, as indicated in its monthly report, multiplied by four
   dollars ($4) per ton.

   737.9. A facility that exclusively receives and processes construction and
   demolition waste shall pay a sum equal to the amount of construction or
   demolition material deposited or placed at the facility during the preceding
   month, as indicated in its monthly report, multiplied by two dollars ($2) per
   ton.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 6816, 6832 (December 20, 1996).
