                                  DC REGULATIONS

SOLID WASTE FACILITY PERMIT TERMS AND CONDITIONS (ยง 21-732)

732.1. If the Director concludes that an application for a solid waste
   facility permit should be granted, the Director shall issue a solid waste
   facility permit which shall specify, as the Director determines, the following
   operating requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	The types of solid waste which can be delivered to the solid waste
   facility;
   
   
   
   (b)	The solid waste processing and disposal procedures to be followed by the
   solid waste facility;
   
   
   
   (c)	The annual and, if appropriate, daily, weekly or monthly tonnage limits of
   solid waste which may be delivered to the solid waste facility;
   
   
   
   (d)	The solid waste facility&#8217;s approved days and hours of operation.
   Except as provided in subparagraph (d)(4) of this subsection, or as may be
   modified by the Zoning Commission or the Board of Zoning Adjustment, the days
   and hours of operation in accordance with subparagraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3)
   as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	Solid waste facilities located within three hundred feet (300 ft.) of a
   residential property line shall be precluded from operating between the hours
   of 7:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday;
   
   
   
   (2)	Solid waste facilities located more than three hundred feet (300 ft.) of a
   residential property line shall be precluded from operating between the hours
   of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday;
   
   
   
   (3)	Solid waste facilities shall be precluded from operating on Sundays; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Authorization of a solid waste facility to operate on a Sunday, or during
   hours otherwise prohibited by subparagraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) may be granted
   by the Director if the expanded hours of operation do not exceed the limits
   set by the Zoning Commission or the Board of Zoning Adjustment and the
   applicant proves to the Director&#8217;s satisfaction that the additional
   hours of operation will not adversely affect the reasonable enjoyment of life
   and property of persons residing within a one-quarter (1/4) mile radius of the
   facility;
   
   
   
   (e)	Any additional insurance required beyond the minimum established by
   ยง730.3(v); and
   
   
   
   (f)	Other terms and conditions as are necessary to safeguard human health, the
   public welfare, and the environment, and to assure compliance with the Act and
   all environmental, health, safety, and zoning laws, rules, and regulations.

   732.2. Each interim operating permit and solid waste facility permit shall
   indicate that the terms and conditions of the permit include the obligation of
   the permittee to abide by all the laws, rules and regulations of the District
   of Columbia which are applicable to solid waste facilities.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 6816, 6825 (December 20, 1996).
