                                  DC REGULATIONS

DETERMINATION OF REASONABLE AND NECESSARY EXPENDITURES (§ 15-2001)

2001.1. When any proceeding is initiated, the Office shall, from time to time
   and prior to issuing a Notice of Agency Fund Requirements to the Commission,
   determine the reasonable and necessary expenditures required to fully carry
   out its statutory duties, consistent with the procedures set forth in this
   chapter.

   2001.2. The Case Manager shall identify and define the need for resources, and
   in so doing shall take into account the following factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nature of the proceeding;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number, scope, and complexity of the issues;
   
   
   
   (c)	The time and labor required;
   
   
   
   (d)	Time limitations imposed by the client or the circumstances;
   
   
   
   (e)	The expertise, reputation, and ability of the contractor;
   
   
   
   (f)	The quality of the contractor&#8217;s work;
   
   
   
   (g)	The customary expenditures required for services in comparable
   proceedings;
   
   
   
   (h)	The potential effect of the proceeding on District ratepayers in terms of
   cost, regulatory policy, socioeconomic impact, or precedent;
   
   
   
   (i)	The existence of other pending litigation and other proceedings which may
   have a direct or indirect impact on the proceeding in question; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Any other factors which reasonably affect the resources required.

   2001.3. Whenever the Case Manager concludes that resources are required that
   necessitate the preparation of a recommended determination of Agency Fund
   requirements, he or she shall submit to the Agency Administrator a written
   statement of need which shall be made a part of the official record and which
   shall include the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The number and type of contractors needed;
   
   
   
   (b)	The names of the contractors required, noting the category of services to
   be prodded and the matters to be addressed by each contractor; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A narrative, based upon the considerations required in §2001.2,
   supporting the need for the resources requested.

   2001.4. Whenever the Agency Administrator receives a written statement of need
   from the Case Manager under §2001.3, the Agency Administrator shall prepare a
   recommended determination of Agency Fund requirements and a proposed
   Commission order based upon the resource requirements identified and defined
   by the Case Manager, including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The amount sought from the affected utility and the date(s) on which
   payment is requested to be made by the utility;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name of each contractor to be hired, accompanied by a brief
   description of their qualifications;
   
   
   
   (c)	The contract negotiated with each contractor, indicating the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A brief description of the work to be performed and the matters assigned;
   
   
   
   (2)	The number of persons employed under the contract by each contractor and
   the hourly rate to be charged by such persons; and
   
   
   
   (3)	The actual or estimated contract ceiling of each contract; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement based upon the narrative submitted by the Case Manager under
   §2001.3(c) justifying the necessity and reasonableness of the expenditures.

   2001.5. Prior to submitting a recommended determination and proposed order to
   the People&#8217;s Counsel, the Agency Administrator shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Hand-deliver a copy of all the materials listed in §2001.4 to the
   affected utility for review and comment; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Respond to any formal opposition in writing by either modifying the
   recommended determination and proposed order, or setting forth with
   particularity the reasons for denying or rejecting the opposition raised.

   2001.6. Whenever an affected utility does not file a timely opposition, the
   Agency Administrator shall forward the recommended determination and proposed
   order, a draft cover letter to the Commission, and the official written record
   to the People&#8217;s Counsel within six (6) business days of the date on
   which the determination was submitted to the affected utility.

   2001.7. Whenever the affected utility does file a timely opposition, the
   Agency Administrator shall forward the recommended determination and the
   official record to the People&#8217;s Counsel within nine (9) business days of
   the date on which the recommended determination was submitted to the affected
   utility.

   2001.8. The Agency Administrator shall, upon submission of a recommended
   determination to the People&#8217;s Counsel, certify as to the accuracy and
   completeness of the record submitted.

   2001.9. The Agency Administrator shall, on the same date, provide to the
   affected utility the recommended determination which was submitted to the
   People&#8217;s Counsel.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 5616 (October 4, 1985).
