                                  DC REGULATIONS

DETERMINATION OF AGENCY FUND REQUIREMENTS (ยง 15-2003)

2003.1. Whenever the People&#8217;s Counsel receives a recommended
   determination and proposed order from the Agency Administrator, the
   People&#8217;s Counsel shall determine the reasonable and necessary
   expenditures of the Office based on the official record by approving or
   modifying the recommended determination or shall remand the recommended
   determination and record to the Agency Administrator with specific
   instructions.

   2003.2. In determining the reasonable and necessary expenditures of the
   Office, the People&#8217;s Counsel shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Indicate the basis for the determination reached;
   
   
   
   (b)	Make specific findings as to any unresolved opposition filed by an
   affected utility; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Indicate the basis in the official record for the findings.

   2003.3. Any determination of Agency Fund Requirements shall be submitted in
   writing, and shall set forth the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The reasonable and necessary expenditures of the Office requiring the
   issuance of a Commission order directing a deposit into the Agency Fund;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be supported by substantial evidence in the official record; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Be entitled a Notice of Agency Fund Requirements as defined in ยง1401.1.

   2003.4. Whenever the People&#8217;s Counsel issues a Notice of Agency Fund
   Requirements, he or she shall submit it with the proposed order as an official
   record to the Commission for issuance of an order, and on the same date,
   hand-deliver to the affected utility a copy of the determination, the proposed
   order, and an index of the official record.

   2003.5. A Notice of Agency Fund Requirements and proposed order shall be
   submitted to the Commission prior to the expiration of the period for filing
   an appeal or petition for reconsideration of a final order or decision in the
   proceeding.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 5619 (October 4, 1985).
