                                  DC REGULATIONS

LETTERS OF INTENT (ยง 29-413)

413.1. Prior to submission of a formal application for a proposed use of
   federal funds, the applicant shall submit to the SHPDA a letter of intent to
   apply for federal assistance.

   413.2. A letter of intent shall include at least the following basic
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A brief description of the project;
   
   
   
   (b)	The location of the project;
   
   
   
   (c)	The target population to be served;
   
   
   
   (d)	The estimated total cost of the project and the amount of federal funds
   proposed to be requested;
   
   
   
   (e)	The federal funding agency and legislative authority for the grant;
   
   
   
   (f)	The applicant&#8217;s contact person; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The projected implementation date and project duration.

   413.3. The letter of intent shall be submitted to the SHPDA at least sixty
   (60) days prior to the intended date of the submission of the application for
   review.

   413.4. If the nature of a special project, a short-term notification of
   available funds from the funding agency, or related circumstances preclude an
   applicant from adhering to the sixty (60) day time frame established for
   submission of letters of intent under ยง413.3, the SHPDA may waive the letter
   of intent requirement.

   413.5. In situations where an applicant does not have sufficient opportunity
   to inform SHPDA of its intent to apply for federal assistance because of
   circumstances beyond its control, the applicant shall advise SHPDA as soon as
   possible after the first oral or written notification of the availability of
   funds, but in no case more than seven (7) calendar days after written
   notification from the funding agency regarding the availability of funds. The
   applicant shall immediately ask the funding agency whether the review is
   required under the Proposed Uses of Federal Funds review authority.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 1086 (March 13, 1981).
