                                  DC REGULATIONS

PUBLIC HEARINGS (ยง 29-417)

417.1. If requested by one (1) or more persons directly affected by the
   review, the SHPDA or SHCC shall conduct a public hearing in the course of the
   review.

   417.2. A request for a public hearing shall be made in writing and received by
   the SHPDA within five (5) calendar days after notification of the start of the
   review period.

   417.3. No fees shall be imposed for holding a public hearing.

   417.4. For purposes of this section, the definition of the phrase
   &#8220;persons directly affected by the review&#8221; shall be the same as the
   definition used in applicable federal regulations.

   417.5. The SHPDA may elect to convene a public hearing on its own initiative
   during the review period to offer an opportunity for any person to provide
   information, opinion, or testimony. However, it shall not hold a separate
   hearing if an affected person makes a request on the same application. One (1)
   hearing shall suffice as long as proper notification is given in accordance
   with procedures set forth in this chapter and all persons have an opportunity
   to present testimony at the hearing.

   417.6. Notification to affected persons shall be made through written notice.
   Notification to the general public shall be placed in two (2) newspapers of
   general circulation.

   417.7. Persons interested in presenting testimony shall notify the SHPDA in
   writing at least two (2) days prior to the scheduled hearing to register for
   the presentation of oral or written testimony. However, any person shall be
   allowed the opportunity to present testimony, regardless of pre-registration.

   417.8. Written testimony and comments shall be received by SHPDA not later
   than the close of the hearing or by a later time established by the hearing
   officer.

   417.9. All comments and testimony presented at the public hearing shall become
   a part of the general record and shall be made available to the public for
   inspection and copying upon request.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 1086 (March 13, 1981).
