                                  DC REGULATIONS

SHPDA REVIEW PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA (ยง 29-406)

406.1. The performance of any review by the SHPDA and SHCC shall be in
   accordance with and consistent with review procedures set forth in this
   chapter.

   406.2. Before adopting or revising the review procedures and criteria, the
   SHPDA shall conduct a public hearing and establish a thirty (30) day public
   comment period to give interested persons an opportunity to offer written and
   or oral comments on materials it proposes to adopt.

   406.3. The SHPDA shall publish in the D.C. Register, and in one (1) or more
   newspapers of general circulation in the District, a notice stating that
   review procedures and criteria, or revisions, have been proposed for adoption
   and are available at a specified address for inspection and copying. The
   notice shall include detailed information about the public hearing and the
   public comment period.

   406.4. The SHPDA shall distribute copies of the proposed review procedures and
   criteria, or revisions, to the Secretary of DHHS and to entities with which
   the SHPDA is required to coordinate its activities under ยง1513(d) of Public
   Law 93-641, as amended, including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any agency which establishes rates for health care facilities or health
   maintenance organizations (HMOs) in the District;
   
   
   
   (b)	The clearinghouse established under Office of Management and Budget
   Circular A-95;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Statewide Health Coordinating Council;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Professional Standards Review Organization; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The health systems agencies, SHPDAs, and Statewide Health Coordinating
   Councils designated for the areas contiguous to the District.

   406.5. The SHPDA shall not impose fees for distributing the proposed review
   procedures and criteria, or proposed revisions, to the agencies and
   organizations specified in ยง406.4.

   406.6. The SHPDA shall distribute copies of the adopted review procedures and
   criteria, and any revisions, upon request.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 1086 (March 13, 1981).
