                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORAGE OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (§ 20-701)

701.1. A person shall not place, store or hold in any stationary tank,
   reservoir or other container with a capacity of more than forty thousand
   (40,000) gallons any gasoline or any petroleum distillate having a vapor
   pressure of one and one-half pounds per square inch (1.5 lb./in2) absolute or
   greater under actual storage conditions, unless the tank, reservoir, or other
   container is a pressure tank maintaining working pressures sufficient at all
   times to prevent hydrocarbon vapor or gas loss to the atmosphere, or is
   designed and equipped with one of the vapor loss control devices in good
   working order and in operation, as provided in §§ 701.2 through 701.13.

   701.2. This section shall apply to all petroleum liquid storage vessels
   equipped with external floating roofs, having capacities greater than forty
   thousand (40,000) gallons.

   701.3. This section does not apply to petroleum liquid storage vessels which
   do any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	When used to store waxy, heavy pour crude oil;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a capacity of less than four hundred twenty thousand (420,000)
   gallons and are used to store produced crude oil and condensate prior to lease
   custody transfer;
   
   
   
   (c)	Contain a petroleum liquid with a true vapor pressure of less than one and
   one-half (1.5) pounds psia;
   
   
   
   (d)	Contain a petroleum liquid with a true vapor pressure less than four (4.0)
   pounds psia:
   
   
   
   (1)	Are of welded construction; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Presently possess a metallic-type shoe, seal, a liquid-mounted foam seal,
   a liquid-mounted liquid filled type seal, or other closure device of
   demonstrated equivalence approved by the Mayor; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Are of welded construction, equipped with a metallic-type shoe primary
   seal and have a secondary seal from the top of the shoe seal to the tank wall
   (shoe-mounted secondary seal).

   701.4. No owner of a petroleum liquid storage vessel subject to this section
   shall store a petroleum liquid in that vessel unless the following
   requirements have been met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The vessel has been fitted with the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A continuous secondary seal extending from the floating roof to the tank
   wall (rim-mounted secondary seal); or
   
   
   
   (2)	A closure or other device which controls volatile organic compound
   emissions with an effectiveness equal to or greater than a seal required under
   § 701.4(a)(1) and approved by the Mayor;
   
   
   
   (b)	All seal closure devices meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	There are no visible holes, tears, or other openings in the seal(s) or
   seal fabric;
   
   
   
   (2)	The seal(s) are intact and uniformly in place around the circumference of
   the floating roof between the floating roof and the tank wall; and
   
   
   
   (3)	For vapor mounted primary seals, the accumulated areas of gaps exceeding
   one-eighth inch (1/8 in.) in width between the secondary seal and the tank
   wall shall not exceed one inch squared per foot (1.0 in/ft2) of tank diameter,
   as determined by the method in § 701.12.
   
   
   
   (c)	All openings in the external floating roof, except for automatic bleeder
   vents, rim space vents, and leg sleeves, are as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	Equipped with covers, seals, or lids in the closed position except when
   the openings are in actual use; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Equipped with projections into the tank which remain below the liquid
   surface at all times.
   
   
   
   (d)	Automatic bleeder vents are closed at all times except when the roof is
   floated off or landed on the roof leg supports;
   
   
   
   (e)	Rim vents are set to open when the roof is being floated off the leg
   supports or at the manufacturer&#8217;s recommended setting; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Emergency roof drains are provided with slotted membrane fabric covers or
   equivalent covers which cover at least ninety percent (90%) of the area of the
   opening.

   701.5. The owner or operator of a petroleum liquid storage vessel with an
   external floating roof subject to this subtitle shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Perform routine inspections semi-annually in order to insure compliance
   with § 701.4 and the inspections shall include a visual inspection of the
   secondary seal gap;
   
   
   
   (b)	Measure the secondary seal gap annually in accordance with § 701.4(b)(3)
   when the floating roof is equipped with a vapor-mounted primary seal; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Maintain records of the types of volatile petroleum liquids stored, the
   maximum true vapor pressure of the liquid stored, and the results of the
   inspections performed according to §§ 701.5(a) and 701.5(b).

   701.6. The owner or operator of a petroleum liquid storage vessel with an
   external floating roof exempted from this section by § 701.3(c) but
   containing a petroleum liquid with a true vapor pressure greater than one
   pound per square inch (1.0 lb/in2), shall maintain records of the average
   monthly storage temperature, the type of liquid, and the maximum true vapor
   pressure for all petroleum liquids with a true vapor pressure greater than one
   pound per square inch (1.0 lb/in2).

   701.7. Copies of all records under §§ 701.5 and 701.6 shall be retained by
   the owner or operator for a minimum of two (2) years after the date the record
   was made.

   701.8. Copies of all records under this section shall immediately be made
   available to the Mayor, upon verbal or written request, at any reasonable
   time.

   701.9. The Mayor may, upon written notice, require more frequent inspections
   or modify the monitoring and recordkeeping requirements, when necessary to
   accomplish the purposes of this section.

   701.10. The owner or operator of any volatile organic compound source required
   to comply with § 701.13 shall, at his or her own expense, demonstrate
   compliance by the methods approved by the Mayor.

   701.11. A person proposing to conduct a volatile organic compound, emissions
   test shall notify the Mayor of the intent to test not less than thirty (30)
   days before the proposed initiation of the tests so the Mayor may at his or
   her option observe the test. The notification shall contain the information
   required by, and be in a format approved by the Mayor.

   701.12. Compliance with § 701.4(b)(3) shall be determined by the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Physically measuring the length and width of all gaps around the entire
   circumference of the secondary seal in each place where a one-eighth inch (1/8
   in.) uniform diameter probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against
   the seal) between the seal and tank wall; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Summing the area of the individual gaps.

   701.13. A vapor recovery system shall consist of a vapor gathering system
   capable of collecting the hydrocarbon vapors and gases so as to prevent their
   emission to the atmosphere and with all tank gauging and sampling devices
   gas-tight except when gauging or sampling is taking place.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Section 3 of the District of Columbia Air Pollution Control Act of
   1984, D.C. Law 5-165, § 701, 32 DCR 565, 615 (February 1, 1985).
