                                  DC REGULATIONS

STAGE II VAPOR RECOVERY (§ 20-705)

705.1. Unless exempted under § 705.3 or 705.4, the transfer of gasoline to
   any vehicular fuel tank from any stationary storage container shall be
   prohibited unless the transfer is made through a fill nozzle designed,
   operated, and maintained as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	To prevent the discharge of gasoline vapors to the atmosphere from either
   the vehicle filler neck or the fill nozzle;
   
   
   
   (b)	To direct the displaced vapor from the vehicular fuel tank to either of
   the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A system, utilizing a process other than vacuum assist, wherein at least
   ninety percent (90%) by weight of the organic compounds in the displaced
   vapors are removed, recovered, or destroyed; or
   
   
   
   (2)	A system, utilizing a vacuum assist process, wherein at least ninety-six
   percent (96%) by weight of the organic compounds in the displaced vapors are
   removed, recovered or destroyed; and
   
   
   
   (c)	To prevent vehicular fuel tank overfills and spillage.

   705.2. A vapor-balance system meeting the specifications set forth in § 705.5
   and used in compliance with § 705.6 shall be deemed to be in compliance with
   the requirements set forth in § 705.1(b)(1).

   705.3. All gasoline dispensing facilities available to the general public, or
   to segments of the general public by virtue of having some membership or
   military status, having three (3) or less dispensing nozzles and dispensing
   less than ten thousand (10,000) gallons of gasoline per month, or less than
   fifty thousand (50,000) gallons of gasoline per month in the case of an
   independent small business marketer of gasoline, shall be exempt from the
   requirements of § 705.1.

   705.4. All gasoline dispensing facilities available to the general public, or
   to segments of the general public by virtue of having some membership or
   military status, having three (3) or less dispensing nozzles and dispensing
   more than ten thousand (10,000) gallons of gasoline per month, or more than
   fifty thousand (50,000) gallons of gasoline per month in the case of an
   independent small business marketer of gasoline shall comply with the
   requirement of § 705.1 according to the following schedule:
   
   
   
   (a)	May 15, 1993, in the case of gasoline dispensing facilities for which
   construction commenced after November 15, 1990;
   
   
   
   (b)	November 15, 1993, in the case of gasoline dispensing facilities which
   dispense at least one hundred thousand (100,000) gallons of gasoline per
   month, based on average monthly sales for the two (2) year period before
   November 15, 1992;
   
   
   
   (c)	November 15, 1994, in the case of all other gasoline dispensing
   facilities;
   
   
   
   (d)	Any gasoline dispensing facility described under paragraphs (a) and (b) of
   this subsection shall meet the requirements of paragraph (a); and
   
   
   
   (e)	Applicability shall be based upon the average monthly throughput
   determined for the two (2) year period prior to November 15, 1992, and will
   not include any periods of facility inactivity. Average monthly throughput
   shall be calculated using a thirty (30) day rolling average.

   705.5. All gasoline dispensing facilities available to the general public, or
   to segments of the general public by virtue of having some membership or
   military status, may, if desired by the owner thereof, have no more than one
   (1) nozzle at each facility which does not comply with the requirements of §
   705.1; Provided, that this exemption shall not be applicable to stations with
   no self-service islands.

   705.6. A vapor balance system shall have the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A vapor-tight vapor return hose to conduct the vapors displaced from the
   vehicular fuel tank to the gasoline dispensing facility&#8217;s gasoline
   storage tank(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	A vapor-tight seal to prevent the escape of gasoline vapors into the
   atmosphere from the interface between the fill nozzle and the filler neck of
   the vehicular fuel tank;
   
   
   
   (c)	A fill nozzle with a built-in no-seal no-flow feature designed to prevent
   the discharge of gasoline from the nozzle unless the seal described in
   paragraph (b) of this subsection is engaged;
   
   
   
   (d)	A fill nozzle with a built-in feature, designed to automatically shutoff
   the flow of gasoline when the pressure in the vehicular fuel tank exceeds ten
   (10 in.) inches of water gauge;
   
   
   
   (e)	A vapor return hose equipped with a device that will automatically shutoff
   the flow of gasoline through the fill nozzle when gasoline circulates back
   from the fill nozzle through the vapor hose to the facility&#8217;s gasoline
   storage tank(s);
   
   
   
   (f)	A vapor return hose no longer than nine feet (9 ft.) in length unless the
   hose is attached to a device designed to keep the hose out of the way of
   vehicles (when the nozzle is not in use) and to drain the hose of any
   collected or condensed gasoline; and
   
   
   
   (g)	A gasoline dispensing system equipped with a device designed to prevent
   the dispensing of gasoline at any rate greater than eight (8) gallons per
   minute.

   705.7. The use by any person of a fill nozzle which is a part of the vapor
   balance system shall be prohibited unless the system is maintained in good
   repair, and unless proper operating practices including, but not limited to,
   the following practices are followed:
   
   
   
   (a)	Draining the vapor return hose. as often as is necessary, but at least
   once each operating day, of any collected or condensed gasoline;
   
   
   
   (b)	Waiting as long as is necessary, but at least three (3) seconds after the
   shut-off of the fuel, before disconnecting the nozzle from the fill neck, in
   order to balance the pressure between the vehicular fuel tank and the
   facility&#8217;s gasoline storage tank(s); and
   
   
   
   (c)	After each fuel delivery placing the vapor return hose on an area where
   vehicles will not ride over the vapor return hose.

   705.8. The transfer of gasoline to any vehicular fuel tank from any stationary
   storage tank shall be prohibited, unless the transfer is made through a fill
   nozzle designed to automatically shutoff the transfer of gasoline when the
   vehicular fuel tank is full or nearly full.

   705.9. Any additional transfer of gasoline to any vehicular fuel tank from a
   stationary storage tank after the dispensing system has automatically shut-off
   the transfer of gasoline by virtue of the vehicular fuel tank being full or
   nearly full shall be prohibited.

   705.10. The operator of a gasoline dispensing facility shall take the actions
   necessary to ensure that all parts of the system used at the facility for
   compliance with the section are maintained in good repair, and to ensure that
   any person, whether attendant, customer, or other, who uses the facility, does
   so in accordance with proper operating practices and otherwise in compliance
   with the requirements of this section.

   705.11. For purposes of this section, &#8220;operator&#8221; means any person
   who leases, operates, manages, supervises, or controls, directly or
   indirectly, a gasoline dispensing facility.

   705.12. The transfer of gasoline to any vehicular fuel tank from any
   stationary storage tank where a system for the control of gasoline vapors
   resulting from motor vehicle fueling operations is required shall be
   prohibited unless the operator posts conspicuously the operating instructions
   and warnings, in a form and with content duly promulgated by the Mayor, for
   the system in the gasoline dispensing area. The instructions shall be as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Clearly describe how to fuel vehicles correctly with vapor recovery
   nozzles utilized at the station;
   
   
   
   (b)	Include a prominent display of the telephone number of the service station
   owner or operator for making complaints; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Include warnings that:
   
   
   
   (1)	Repeated attempts to continue dispensing, after the system has indicated
   that the vehicle fuel tank is full, may result in spillage or recirculation of
   gasoline; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Breathing gasoline vapors is hazardous to health.

   705.13. All vapor control systems (and components thereof) for the control of
   gasoline vapors resulting from motor vehicle fueling operations including, but
   not limited to, vapor balance systems and vacuum assist systems, shall meet
   the requirements for certification and shall be operated in accordance with
   the standards in effect on the effective date of the District of Columbia Air
   Pollution Control Act of 1984 as established by the State Fire Marshal for the
   State of California or the Division of Measurement Standards of the Department
   of Food and Agriculture of the State of California pursuant to §§
   41956-41958 of the Health and Safety Code of the State of California.

   705.14. The requirements and standards, including those specified in §§
   705.6, 705.7, and 705.13 of this subtitle, may be changed by the Mayor through
   the exercise of administrative rulemaking procedures under the District of
   Columbia Administrative Procedure Act, approved October 21, 1968 (82 Stat.
   1204; D.C. Code §§ 1-1501 et seq. (1981)), with the Mayor affording
   appropriate consideration in the rulemaking process to the following factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	What other states and governmental authorities have done; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The effect of proposed changes upon distributors and manufacturers of
   vapor recovery equipment and upon the owners and operators of stations subject
   to the Stage II vapor recovery requirements.

   705.15. Alternate vapor recovery systems may be used to attain compliance with
   § 705.1(b) in lieu of the specific requirements stated in that section;
   Provided, that the following occurs:
   
   
   
   (a)	The alternate system(s) is demonstrated to have at least equivalent
   results in recovering emissions of volatile organic compounds as application
   of the requirements of that section; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The alternate system(s) is approved by the Mayor.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Section 3 of the District of Columbia Air Pollution Control Act of
   1984, D.C. Law 5-165, § 705, 32 DCR 565, 626 (February 1, 1985), as amended
   by § 2 of the Pollution Control Act of 1984 National Ambient Air Quality
   Standards Attainment Amendment Act of 1993, D.C. Law 10-24, 40 DCR 5474, 5486
   (July 30, 1993).
