                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTROL TECHNIQUES GUIDELINES (CTGS) (§ 20-714)

714.1. Any person who owns, operates, or leases any combination of articles,
   machines, units, equipment, or other contrivances at a facility whose actual
   VOC emissions before control devices from all units within any one (1) Control
   Techniques Guidelines (CTGs) category specified in § 714.3 are:
   
   
   
   (a)	More than fifteen pounds (15 lbs) in any one (1) day, or more than three
   pounds (3 lbs) in any one (1) hour, shall be subject to the provisions of this
   section through §714.8(a) and shall reduce the uncontrolled VOC emissions by
   at least ninety percent (90%) overall capture and control efficiency; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Less than fifteen pounds (15 lbs) in any one (1) day, and less than three
   pounds (3 lb.) in any one (1) hour, shall be subject to § 714.8(b).

   714.2. Any facility that becomes or is currently subject to the provisions of
   this section by exceeding the applicability threshold in § 714.1(a) will
   remain subject to these provisions even if its throughput or emissions have
   fallen or later fall below the applicability threshold.

   714.3. The following source categories covered by a CTG issued by the EPA in
   the Federal Register in a final rule or in a notice of final determination and
   availability of a final CTG are subject to this section:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Miscellaneous Metal Product and Plastic Parts Surface Coatings, where, for the
   purposes of this section, a source performs surface coating of miscellaneous
   metal and plastic parts at a manufacturing facility or on a contract basis,
   except:
   
   
   
   (1)	VOC emissions addressed by § 718 (MERR), to the extent the coatings are
   used to repair and refinish mobile equipment or mobile equipment components;
   and
   
   
   
   (2)	VOC emissions addressed by §§ 773 to 778 (AIM), to the extent the
   coatings are used on buildings or structures for architectural and industrial
   maintenance purposes;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Large Appliance Coatings, where, for the purposes of this section, a source
   uses paints, topcoats, basecoats, sealants, caulks, inks, primers, enamels,
   adhesives, maskants, and other such materials in the manufacture of large
   appliance parts or products at a large appliance coatings facility; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Metal Furniture Coatings, where, for the purposes of this section, a source
   applies coatings to metal furniture surface coating units at a metal furniture
   manufacturing facility.

   714.4. Any person to whom § 714.3 applies may, by notifying the Department of
   their request with the application for a permit, propose the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An acceptable RACT emission limit, as recommended in the applicable CTG
   document; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Use of low-VOC materials with add-on controls that will reduce emissions, as
   recommended in the applicable CTG document.

   714.5. If a person makes a request under § 714.4, the Department will:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Approve, deny, or modify each request for an alternative to § 714.1(a) as
   RACT, and approve a request only if it meets the recommendation in the
   applicable CTG; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Incorporate each approved RACT determination in a permit and submit the RACT
   determination to the EPA for approval as a SIP revision.

   714.6. As an alternative to § 714.4, any person to whom § 714.3 applies may
   propose RACT based on a source-specific RACT analysis, in accordance with §
   715.5 through 715.7.

   714.7. No person subject to § 714.1(a) shall use, handle, store, or dispose
   of VOC- containing materials, coatings, paints, topcoats, basecoats, sealants,
   caulks, inks, primers, enamels, adhesives, maskants, solvents, industrial
   cleaning solvents, and waste materials unless the person:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Stores all VOC-containing materials, coatings, solvents, industrial
   cleaning solvents, inks, adhesives, and waste materials in closed containers
   except when depositing or removing these materials;
   
   
   
   (b)	Minimizes spills of VOC-containing materials;
   
   
   
   (c)	Cleans up spills immediately;
   
   
   
   (d)	Conveys any VOC-containing materials, coatings, solvents, industrial
   cleaning solvents, inks, adhesives, and waste materials in closed containers
   or pipes;
   
   
   
   (e)	Closes mixed vessels, which contain VOC-containing materials, coatings,
   solvents, industrial cleaning solvents, inks, and adhesives except when they
   are specifically in use;
   
   
   
   (f)	Minimizes emissions of VOCs during cleaning of storage, mixing, conveying,
   and other equipment; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Stores cloth and paper, or other absorbent applicators, moistened with
   coatings, solvents, or cleaning solvents in closed, nonabsorbent, non-leaking
   containers.

   714.8. Any person who owns, operates, or leases any combination of articles,
   machines, units, equipment, or other contrivances at a facility:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Subject to § 714.1(a) shall keep records as may be necessary to
   determine emissions and compliance with the applicable limitation or control
   requirement as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	The records shall provide sufficient data and calculations to demonstrate
   clearly that the emission limitations or control requirements are met;
   
   
   
   (2)	Data or information required to determine compliance with an applicable
   limitation shall be recorded and maintained in a time frame consistent with
   the averaging period of the standard; and
   
   
   
   (3)	The records shall be retained at least two (2) years from when they were
   originated and shall be made available to the Department on request; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Subject to § 714.1(b) shall maintain records that clearly demonstrate to
   the Department that the facility’s emissions are below the applicability
   threshold.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Section 2 of the Gasoline Reid Vapor Pressure Requirements Act of
   1990, D.C. Law 8-238 (January 11, 1991); as amended by Notice of Final
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 11286, 11293 (December 30, 2011).
