                                  DC REGULATIONS

MISCELLANEOUS INDUSTRIAL SOLVENT CLEANING OPERATIONS (§ 20-770)

770.1. Except as provided in § 770.9, after January 1, 2012, any person who:
   
   
   
   	(a)  	Uses any industrial cleaning solvent in a solvent cleaning operation in
   or on the premises of a factory or a shop as part of a manufacturing,
   production, or repairing process where the facility emits at least fifteen
   pounds (15 lb.) of VOC emissions in any one (1) day from all solvent cleaning
   operations shall be subject to this section through § 770.10(a);
   
   
   
   		(b) 	Sells, supplies, offers for sale, or manufactures any industrial
   cleaning solvent for use in the District of Columbia shall be subject to this
   section through § 770.10(a); or
   
   
   
   		(c)	Uses any industrial cleaning solvent in a solvent cleaning operation in
   or on the premises of a factory or a shop as part of a manufacturing,
   production, or repairing process where the facility emits less than fifteen
   pounds (15 lb.) of VOC emissions in any one (1) day from all solvent cleaning
   operations shall be subject to § 770.10(b).

   770.2. Any solvent cleaning operation that becomes or is currently subject to
   the provisions of this section by exceeding the applicability threshold in §
   770.1(a) will remain subject to these provisions even if its throughput or
   emissions have fallen or later fall below the applicability threshold.

   770.3. For purposes of § 770 and any of the definitions in § 799 applicable
   to § 770, the District incorporates by reference rules and test methods from
   the California Air Resource Board (CARB), the South Coast Air Quality
   Management District (SCAQMD), and the American Society for Testing and
   Materials (ASTM), where specifically cited.

   770.4. Each part of § 770 shall be deemed severable, and if any part is held
   to be invalid, the remainder shall continue in full force.

   770.5. On and after January 1, 2012, no person may use any industrial cleaning
   solvent in a solvent cleaning operation unless:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The person uses an industrial cleaning solvent that meets at least one of
   the following limitations:
   
   
   
   (1)	A content limit of fifty grams (50 g.) VOC per liter as applied including
   water and exempt compounds; or
   
   
   
   (2)	A composite vapor pressure of less than or equal to eight millimeters of
   mercury (8 mm. Hg) at twenty degrees Celsius (20° C) or sixty-eight degrees
   Fahrenheit (68° F); or
   
   
   
   	(b) 	The person controls VOC emissions from the solvent cleaning operation
   with an emission control system with an overall control efficiency of at least
   eight-five percent (85%).

   770.6. The VOC content of industrial cleaning solvents shall be determined by:
   
   
   
   (a) 	EPA Reference Method 24 (Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40, Part 60,
   Appendix A), where the exempt compounds&#8217; content shall be determined by
   the South Coast Air Quality Management District&#8217;s (SCAQMD) Method 303
   (Determination of Exempt Compounds) contained in the SCAQMD &#8220;Laboratory
   Methods of Analysis for Enforcement Samples&#8221; manual; or
   
   
   
   (b)	SCAQMD Method 304 [Determination of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) in
   Various Materials] contained in the SCAQMD &#8220;Laboratory Methods of
   Analysis for Enforcement Samples&#8221; manual; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	For the purposes of (a) and (b), exempt perfluorocarbon compounds will be
   analyzed as exempt compounds for compliance with § 770.4, only when
   manufacturers specify which individual compounds are used in the solvent
   formulation and identify the EPA and the District approved test methods used
   to quantify the amount of each exempt compound.

   770.7. The vapor pressure of the industrial cleaning solvent shall be
   determined using the following methods:
   
   
   
   (a) 	If the solvent subject to § 770.5 is composed of only one (1) VOC, the
   vapor pressure shall be determined by ASTM Method D-2879-86 or from a
   published source such as: Boublik, T., V. Fried and E. Hala, “The Vapor
   Pressure of Pure Substances,” Elsevier Scientific Publishing Company, New
   York (1973), or Perry’s Chemical Engineer’s Handbook, McGraw-Hill Book
   Company (1984), or CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, Chemical Rubber
   Publishing Company (1986-87), or Lange’s Handbook of Chemistry, John A.
   Dean, editor, McGraw-Hill Book Company (1985);
   
   
   
   (b) 	If the industrial cleaning solvent subject to § 770.5 is composed of
   VOCs and non-VOCs, the vapor pressure shall be determined by the following
   equation:
   
   
   
   P =
   
   
   
   where:
   
   
   
   P = 	Total vapor pressure of the VOC component of the solvent at twenty
   degrees Celsius (20° C) or sixty-eight degrees Fahrenheit (68º F), in
   millimeters of mercury (mm. Hg),
   
   
   
   n = 	Number of VOCs in the solvent,
   
   
   
   i = 	Subscript denoting an individual VOC,
   
   
   
   Pi = 	Vapor pressure of the “i”th VOC at twenty degrees Celsius (20° C)
   or sixty-eight degrees Fahrenheit (68º F) determined pursuant to § 709.8(a),
   in mm Hg, and
   
   
   
   Xi = 	Mole fraction of the “i”th VOC of the total solvent; or
   
   
   
   (c) 	If the industrial cleaning solvent subject to § 770.5 is composed of
   only VOCs, the vapor pressure shall be determined by ASTM Method D-2879-86 or
   by the equation in § 770.7(b).

   770.8. A person who sells or offers for sale any solvent containing VOCs for
   use in a solvent cleaning operation shall provide the following written
   information to the purchaser:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the solvent supplier;
   
   
   
   (b)	The type of solvent including the product or vendor identification number;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	The vapor pressure of the solvent measured in millimeters of mercury (mm.
   Hg) at twenty degrees Celsius (20o C) or sixty-eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°
   F); or
   
   
   
   (d)	The VOC content in grams per liter including exempt compounds.

   770.9. Subsections 770.1 through 770.8 shall not apply on or after January 1,
   2012, to any person who owns, operates, or leases:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any cold cleaning machine, batch vapor cleaning machine, in-line vapor
   cleaning machine, airless cleaning machine, air-tight cleaning machine, or
   other solvent cleaning machine subject to §§ 763 to 769;
   
   
   
   (b)	Cleaning and surface preparation operations at sources subject to §§
   710, 714, 716, 718, and 743 through 749;
   
   
   
   (c)	Products used to clean electrical and electronic components;
   
   
   
   (d)	Products used to clean high precision optics;
   
   
   
   (e)	Products used to clean numismatic dies;
   
   
   
   (f)	Products used to strip cured inks, coatings, and adhesives;
   
   
   
   (g)	Cleaning products used for janitorial purposes, including graffiti remover
   products;
   
   
   
   (h)	Products used to clean resin, coating, ink, and adhesive mixing, molding,
   and application equipment;
   
   
   
   (i)	Cleaning and surface preparation operations in research and development
   laboratories;
   
   
   
   (j)	Cleaning and surface preparation operations in medical device or
   pharmaceutical products manufacturing;
   
   
   
   (k)	Cleaning and surface preparation operations related to performance of
   quality assurance testing or performance testing of coatings, inks, or
   adhesives;
   
   
   
   (l)	Cleaning and surface preparation operations related to the application of
   coatings, inks, and adhesives to flexible packaging from presses, press parts,
   and areas around presses, including off-line cleaning;
   
   
   
   (m)	Parts washers or cold cleaners for purposes other than removing inks,
   coatings, and adhesives from flexible package printing presses.
   
   
   
   (n)	Cleaning and surface preparation operations related to application of
   coatings subject to regulation under §§ 773 to 778 (AIM) to the extent the
   coatings are used as architectural and industrial maintenance coatings;
   
   
   
   (o)	Printing operations using electron beam inks or ultraviolet inks;
   
   
   
   (p)	Cleaning and surface preparation operations related to screen printing;
   
   
   
   (q)	Cleaning and surface preparation operations related to specialty
   flexographic printing; or
   
   
   
   (r)	Cleaning and surface preparation operations related to magnet wire coating
   operations.

   770.10. Any person subject to:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Subsections 770.1(a) or (b) shall keep records as may be necessary to
   determine emissions and compliance with the applicable limitation or control
   requirement as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	The records shall include, but not be limited, to the information
   specified in § 770.7 or an invoice, bill of sale, certificate that
   corresponds to a number of sales, Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), or other
   appropriate documentation acceptable to the Department that may be used to
   comply with this section;
   
   
   
   (2)	The records shall provide sufficient data and calculations to clearly
   demonstrate that the emission limitations or control requirements are met;
   
   
   
   (3)	Data or information required to determine compliance with an applicable
   limitation shall be recorded and maintained in a time frame consistent with
   the averaging period of the standard; and
   
   
   
   (4)	The records shall be retained at least two (2) years and shall be made
   available to the Department on request; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Subsection 770.1(c) shall maintain records that clearly demonstrate to the
   Department that the facility’s emissions are below the applicability
   threshold.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 11286, 11391 (December
   30, 2011).
