                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONSUMER PRODUCTS – CHARCOAL LIGHTER MATERIALS (§ 20-730)

730.1 	No person shall sell, supply, or offer for sale any charcoal lighter
   material product unless at the time of the transaction:
   
   
   
   (a)	The manufacturer can demonstrate that it has been issued a currently
   effective certification by CARB under the Consumer Products provisions under
   Subchapter 8.5, Article 2, § 94509(h), of Title 17 of the California Code of
   Regulations;
   
   
   
   (1)	This certification remains in effect for the District of Columbia for as
   long as the CARB certification remains in effect; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Any manufacturer claiming such a certification on this basis must submit
   to the Department a copy of the certification decision (such as, the executive
   order), including all conditions established by CARB applicable to the
   certification;
   
   
   
   (b)	The manufacturer or distributor has been issued a currently effective
   certification by the Department pursuant to this section;
   
   
   
   (c)	The charcoal lighter material meets the formulation criteria and other
   conditions specified in an applicable Alternative Control Plan (ACP) Agreement
   issued pursuant to this section; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The product usage directions for the charcoal lighter material are the
   same as those provided to the Department pursuant to this section.

   730.2. No charcoal lighter material formulation shall be certified under this
   section unless the applicant for certification demonstrates to the
   Department’s satisfaction that the VOC emissions from the ignition of
   charcoal with the charcoal lighter material are less than or equal to two one
   hundredths of a pound (0.02 lb.) of VOC per start, using the procedures
   specified in the South Coast Air Quality Management District Rule 1174,
   Ignition Method Compliance Certification Protocol, dated February 27, 1991
   (the South Coast Air Quality Management District Rule 1174 Testing Protocol).

   730.3. The Department may approve alternative test procedures that are shown
   to provide equivalent results to those obtained using the South Coast Air
   Quality Management District Rule 1174 Test Protocol.

   730.4. The provisions relating to LVP-VOC in § 799 and § 721.1(f) shall not
   apply to any charcoal lighter material subject to the requirements of this
   section.
   
   
   
   730.5 	For certification of a charcoal lighter material formulation, the
   application shall be in writing and shall include, at a minimum, the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The results of testing conducted pursuant to the procedures specified in
   South Coast Air Quality Management District Rule 1174 Testing Protocol as
   required in § 730.2;
   
   
   
   (b)	The exact text or graphics that will appear on the charcoal lighter
   material&#8217;s principal display panel, label, and any accompanying
   literature;
   
   
   
   (c)	Clearly displayed product usage instructions that accurately reflect the
   quantity of charcoal lighter material per pound that was used in the South
   Coast Air Quality Management District Rule 1174 Testing Protocol for that
   product, unless:
   
   
   
   (1)	The charcoal lighter material is intended to be used in fixed amounts
   independent of the amount of charcoal used, such as certain paraffin cubes; or
   
   
   
   (2)	The charcoal lighter material is already incorporated into the charcoal,
   including but not limited to certain bag light, instant light, or match light
   products;
   
   
   
   (d)	For a charcoal lighter material which meets the criteria specified in §
   730.5(c)(1), the usage instructions provided to the Department shall
   accurately reflect the quantity of charcoal lighter material used in the South
   Coast Air Quality Management District Rule 1174 Testing Protocol for that
   product; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Any physical property data, formulation data, or other information
   required by the Department for use in determining when a product modification
   has occurred and for use in determining compliance with the conditions
   specified in an Alternative Control Plan (ACP) Agreement issued pursuant to §
   735.

   730.6. The Department shall comply with the following requirements for
   approving an application for certification:
   
   
   
   (a)	Within thirty (30) days of receipt of an application, the Department shall
   advise the applicant in writing either that the application is complete or
   that specified additional information is required to make it complete;
   
   
   
   (b)	Within thirty (30) days of receipt of additional information, the
   Department shall advise the applicant in writing either that the application
   is complete, or that specified additional information or testing is required
   before it can be deemed complete; and
   
   
   
   (c)	If the Department finds that an application meets the requirements of this
   section, then the Department shall issue an ACP Agreement certifying the
   charcoal lighter material formulation and specifying such conditions as are
   necessary to ensure that the requirements of this section are met. The
   Department shall act on a complete application within ninety (90) days after
   the application is deemed complete.

   730.7. For any charcoal lighter material for which certification has been
   granted by the Department pursuant to this section, the applicant for
   certification shall notify the Department in writing within thirty (30) days
   of:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any change in the usage directions; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Any change in product formulation, test results, or any other information
   submitted pursuant to this section, which may result in VOC emissions greater
   than two one hundredths of a pound (0.02 lb.) of VOC per start.
   
   
   
   730.8 	If the Department determines that any certified charcoal lighter
   material formulation results in a VOC emission from the ignition of charcoal
   that is greater than two one hundredths of a pound (0.02 lb.) of VOC per
   start, as determined by the South Coast Air Quality Management District Rule
   1174 Testing Protocol, and the statistical analysis procedures contained
   therein, the Department shall revoke or modify the certification as necessary
   to ensure that the charcoal lighter material will result in VOC emissions of
   less than or equal to two one hundredths of a pound (0.02 lb.) of VOC per
   start.

   730.9. The Department shall not revoke or modify a certification issued
   pursuant to this section without first affording the person granted the
   certification an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with the District of
   Columbia Administrative Procedures Act, D.C. Official Code §§ 2-501, et seq.
   (2006 Repl.), to determine if the certification should be modified or revoked.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 3879 (April 16, 2004); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 10781 (November 26, 2004); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 11286, 11317
   (December 30, 2011); as corrected by Errata Notice published at 59 DCR 271
   (January 20, 2012).
