                                  DC REGULATIONS

ARCHITECTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE COATING – REPORTING REQUIREMENTS (§
20-777)

777.1. Upon request by the Department, any manufacturer of clear brushing
   lacquers shall submit a report to the Department that specifies the number of
   gallons of clear brushing lacquers sold in the District of Columbia during the
   preceding calendar year, and describes the method used by the manufacturer to
   calculate District of Columbia sales.

   777.2. Upon request by the Department, any manufacturer of rust preventive
   coatings shall submit an annual report to the Department that specifies the
   number of gallons of rust preventive coatings sold in the District of Columbia
   during the preceding calendar year, and describes the method used by the
   manufacturer to calculate District of Columbia sales.

   777.3. Upon request by the Department, any manufacturer of specialty primers,
   sealers, and undercoaters shall submit an annual report to the Department that
   specifies the number of gallons of specialty primers, sealers, and
   undercoaters sold in the District of Columbia during the preceding calendar
   year, and describes the method used by the manufacturer to calculate District
   of Columbia sales.

   777.4. Upon request by the Department, any manufacturer of architectural
   coating that contains perchloroethylene or methylene chloride shall submit an
   annual report to the Department that specifies the following information for
   products sold in the District of Columbia during the preceding year:
   
   
   
   (a)	The product brand name and a copy of the product label with the legible
   usage instructions;
   
   
   
   (b)	The product category listed in the Table of Standards in § 774.10, to
   which the coating belongs;
   
   
   
   (c)	The total sales in the District during the calendar year to the nearest
   gallon; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The volume percentage, to the nearest one tenth of a percent (0.1%), of
   perchloroethylene and methylene chloride in the coating.
   
   
   
   777.5 	Upon request by the Department, any manufacturer of recycled coatings
   shall submit a letter to the Department certifying its status as a recycled
   paint manufacturer and shall submit an annual report to the Department. The
   report shall include, for all recycled coatings, the total number of gallons
   distributed in the District of Columbia during the preceding year and shall
   describe the method used by the manufacturer to calculate District of Columbia
   distribution.

   777.6. Upon request by the Department, any manufacturer of bituminous roof
   coatings or bituminous roof primers shall submit an annual report to the
   Department that specifies the number of gallons of bituminous roof coatings or
   bituminous roof primers sold in the District of Columbia during the preceding
   calendar year and describes the method used by the manufacturer to calculate
   District of Columbia sales.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 11286, 11404 (December
   30, 2011).
