                                  DC REGULATIONS

INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION (§ 11-101)

101.1. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
   shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the
   public health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general
   welfare to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provide adequate light and air;
   
   
   
   (b)	Prevent undue concentration of population and the overcrowding of land;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide distribution of population, business and industry, and use of land
   that will tend to create conditions favorable to transportation, protection of
   property, civic activity, and recreational, educational, and cultural
   opportunities; and that will tend to further economy and efficiency in the
   supply of public services.

   101.2. The regulations in this title and the Zoning Maps are designed with
   consideration of the:
   
   
   
   (a)	Character of the respective districts;
   
   
   
   (b)	Suitability of each district for the uses permitted in each district under
   this title; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Encouragement of the stability of districts and of land values in those
   districts.

   101.3. The provisions of this title shall govern whenever they:
   
   
   
   (a)	Require larger yards, courts, or other open spaces;
   
   
   
   (b)	Require a lower height or bulk of buildings or a smaller number of
   stories;
   
   
   
   (c)	Require a greater percentage of lot to be unoccupied; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Impose other higher standards than are required in or under any statute or
   by any other municipal regulations.

   101.4. The provisions of any statute or other municipal regulations shall
   govern whenever they:
   
   
   
   (a)	Require larger yards, courts, or other open spaces;
   
   
   
   (b)	Require a lower height or bulk of buildings or a smaller number of
   stories;
   
   
   
   (c)	Require a greater percentage of lot to be unoccupied; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Impose higher standards than are required by this title.

   101.5. No building, structure, or premises shall be used, and no building,
   structure, or part of a building or structure shall be constructed, extended,
   moved, structurally altered, or enlarged except in conformity with this title.

   101.6. Where a lot is divided, the division shall be effected in a manner that
   will not violate the provisions of this title for yards, courts, other open
   space, minimum lot width, minimum lot area, floor area ratio, percentage of
   lot occupancy, parking spaces, or loading berths applicable to that lot or any
   lot created.

   101.7. If any section or provision of this title, or any boundary of any
   district on the Zoning Maps adopted under this title, is decided by the courts
   to be unconstitutional or invalid, that decision shall not affect the validity
   of the regulations and the Zoning Maps as a whole or any part of the
   regulations or maps, other than the part determined to be unconstitutional or
   invalid.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: §§ 1301, 1302, and 9201 of the Zoning Regulations, effective May
   12, 1958; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9741-43 (December
   8, 2000), incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published
   at 47 DCR 8335, 8336-37 (October 20, 2000).
