                                  DC REGULATIONS

INPATIENT PSYCHIATRIC SERVICES FOR INDIVIDUALS UNDER 22 YEARS OF AGE (§ 29-948)

948.1. Inpatient psychiatric services for individuals under the age of
   twenty-two (22) may be provided by:
   
   
   
   		(a)	A psychiatric hospital or an inpatient psychiatric program in a hospital
   accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare
   Organizations; or
   
   
   
   (b)  A psychiatric residential treatment facility (PRTF).

   948.2. Inpatient psychiatric services for individuals under the age of
   twenty-two (22) shall be:
   
   
   
   	(a)	Provided under the direction of a physician;
   
   
   
   	(b)	Provided in a facility or program described in §948.1;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     Provided before the individual reaches the age of twenty-two (22), or, if
   
     the individual was receiving the services immediately before reaching the
   
     age of twenty-two (22), before the earlier of the following:
   
   
   
   		(i)	The date the individual no longer requires the services; or
   
   
   
   		(ii)	The date the individual reaches the age of twenty-two (22).
   
   
   
   	(d)	Certified in writing to be necessary in the setting in which the services
   			shall be provided or are being provided in emergency circumstances in
   			accordance with 42 CFR 441.152; and
   
   
   
   	(e)	Meet the conditions of participation governing the use of restraint or
   
                   seclusion set forth in 42 CFR 483.350 et seq., if services are
   provided by a PRTF.

   948.3. For each Medicaid beneficiary or applicant who is admitted to a
   facility or program, the certification required pursuant to §948.2(d) shall
   be made by an   independent team that includes a physician who has competence
   in diagnosis and treatment of mental illness and has knowledge of the
   beneficiary’s health status. For an individual who applies for Medicaid
   while in the facility or program, the certification shall be made by the team
   responsible for the plan of care as described in §948.6 and shall cover any
   period before application for which claims are made. For emergency admissions,
   the certification shall be made by the team responsible for the plan of care
   within fourteen (14) days after admission.

   948.4. A PRTF shall:
   
   
   
   	(a)	Be licensed in the state where the facility is located, if required by
   the state;
   
   
   
   	(b)	Have a current written provider agreement with the District of
   				Columbia Medicaid Program;
   
   
   
   	(c)	Have a written individual plan of care for each patient as described in
   §948.5, developed by an interdisciplinary team of physicians and other
   professionals as described in §948.6 in consultation with the patient and his
   or her parents, legal guardians, or others in whose care the patient will be
   released after discharge; and
   
   
   
   	(d)	Maintain appropriate administrative and medical records for a minimum of
   six (6) years beyond the age of twenty-two (22) years and make such records
   available to officials of the Department of Health Care Finance, the
   Department of Mental Health, Department of Health, or other governmental
   officials of District, state, or federal agencies, or their designees.

   948.5. Each facility or program shall have a written plan of care for each
   beneficiary that complies with the requirements set forth in 42 CFR 441.155
   and include the following:
   
   
   
   	(a)	A certification of need for services that meets the requirements of 42
   CFR 			441.152;
   
   
   
   	(b)	An assessment of the beneficiary’s immediate and long-range therapeutic
   			needs, developmental priorities, and personal strengths and liabilities;
   
   
   
   	(c)	An assessment of the resources of the beneficiary’s family,
   including			parents, legal guardians, or others into whose care the
   beneficiary 				will be released after the discharge;
   
   
   
   	(d)	The establishment of treatment objectives; and
   
   
   
                   (e)	The prescribing of therapeutic modalities to achieve the
   plan’s objectives.

   948.6. The interdisciplinary team consisting of physicians and other personnel
   that 	develops an individual plan of care shall:
   
   
   
   		(a)	Be employed by the facility directly or under contract;
   
   
   
   	(b)	Have demonstrated competency in child psychiatry (for example, residency
   in child and adolescent psychiatry and experience in inpatient child and
   adolescent inpatient/residential treatment settings);
   
   
   
   		(c)	Include at a minimum:
   
   
   
   		(1)	A board-certified or board-eligible psychiatrist;
   
   
   
   (2)	A clinical psychologist who has a doctoral degree and a physician licensed
   to practice medicine or osteopathy; or
   
   
   
   (3)	 A physician licensed to practice medicine or osteopathy with specialized
   training and experience in the diagnosis and treatment of mental diseases and
   a psychologist who has a master’s degree in clinical psychology or who has
   been certified by the state or by the state psychological association; and
   
   
   
   		(d) 	Include one (1) of the following:
   
   
   
   		(1) 	A psychiatric social worker;
   
   
   
   		(2)	A registered nurse who has specialized training or one (1) year of
   			experience in treating mentally ill individuals;
   
   
   
   (3)	An occupational therapist who is licensed, if required by the state, and
   has specialized training or one (1) year of experience in treating mentally
   ill individuals; or
   
   
   
   (4)	A psychologist who has a master’s degree in clinical psychology or who
   has been certified by the state or by the state psychological association.

   948.7. Each facility or program shall not admit a District Medicaid
   beneficiary or applicant unless the admission has been certified as medically
   necessary by the District of Columbia Department of Mental Health (DMH).

   948.8. Each facility or program shall provide active treatment consistent with
   the requirements set forth in 42 CFR 441.155.

   948.9. The written plan of care shall be developed within fourteen (14) days
   of 	admission and reviewed at least every thirty (30) days thereafter.

   948.10. Each PRTF shall provide to the requesting District child-serving
   agency the initial plan of care and any 	subsequent treatment plan
   adjustments, including all thirty (30) day reviews of the plan of care.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 6812 (October 26, 1990); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 7176 (August 29, 2003); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 1709 (February 26, 2010) and
   corrected at 57 DCR 1892 (March 5, 2010).
