                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPPORTED LIVING SERVICES (ยง 29-993)

993.1. Supported living services shall be reimbursed by the District of
   Columbia Medicaid Program for each participant in the Home and Community-based
   Services Waiver for Persons with Mental Retardation and Developmental
   Disabilities (Waiver) subject to the requirements set forth in this section.

   993.2. In order to qualify for reimbursement under this section, supported
   living services shall be delivered in a Supported Living Residence (SLR) that
   can serve one (1) to three (3) persons and the number of persons in the home
   shall not exceed the number of bedrooms in that home. The SLR must be owned,
   leased or otherwise operated by the Supported Living Provider. The SLR shall
   meet the certification standards developed by the Department on Disability
   Services (DDS) as set forth in the Human Care Agreement between DDS and the
   SLR or be licensed or similarly certified in other states.

   993.3. Each home located out-of-state shall be licensed and/or certified in
   accordance with the host state&#8217;s laws and regulations and/or consistent
   with the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement between the District
   of Columbia and the host state. Each out-of-state provider shall comply with
   the following additional requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Remain in good standing in the jurisdiction where the program is located;
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit a copy of the annual certification or survey performed by the host
   state and provider&#8217;s corrective action, if applicable, to DDS;
   
   
   
   (c)	Allow authorized agents of the District of Columbia government, federal
   government, and governmental officials of the host state full access to all
   sites and records for audits and other reviews; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Be certified by DDS as a qualified provider of supported living services.

   993.4. Supported living services shall be available only to a person with a
   demonstrated need for training, assistance and supervision, and shall be
   authorized and provided in accordance with the person&#8217;s current
   Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) or Individual Support Plan (ISP) and Plan
   of Care.

   993.5. Each provider of supported living services shall assist participants in
   the acquisition, retention, and improvement of skills related to activities of
   daily living, such as personal grooming, household chores, eating and food
   preparation, and other social and adaptive skills necessary to enable the
   person to reside in the community. To accomplish these goals, the provider
   shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Use observation, conversation, and other interactions as necessary to
   develop a functional analysis of the person&#8217;s capabilities within the
   person&#8217;s first month of service;
   
   
   
   (b)	Prepare a support plan with measurable outcomes using the functional
   analysis, the IHP or ISP and Plan of Care, and other information available to
   develop and maintain as appropriate the skills necessary to enable the person
   to reside in the community while maintaining the person&#8217;s health and
   safety; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Prepare a data-based quarterly report for distribution to the person,
   family, guardian, and DDS Case Manager on the activities and support provided
   to help the person to achieve his/her identified outcomes and his/her progress
   to date.

   993.6. Each provider of supported living services shall ensure that
   participants receive hands-on support, habilitation, and other supports, when
   appropriate, which shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas:
   
   
   
   (a)	Eating and drinking;
   
   
   
   (b)	Toileting;
   
   
   
   (c)	Personal hygiene;
   
   
   
   (d)	Dressing;
   
   
   
   (e)	Grooming;
   
   
   
   (f)	Monitoring health and physical condition and assistance with medication or
   other medical needs;
   
   
   
   (g)	Communication;
   
   
   
   (h)	Interpersonal and social skills;
   
   
   
   (i)	Home management;
   
   
   
   (j)	Mobility;
   
   
   
   (k)	Time management;
   
   
   
   (l)	Financial management;
   
   
   
   (m)	Academic and pre-academic skills, other than those prescribed by the
   Individuals with Disabilities in Education Act;
   
   
   
   (n)	Motor and perceptual skills;
   
   
   
   (o)	Problem-solving and decision-making;
   
   
   
   (p)	Human sexuality;
   
   
   
   (q)	Aesthetic appreciation; and
   
   
   
   (r)	Opportunity for social, recreational, and religious activities utilizing
   community resources.

   993.7. Each provider of supported living services shall ensure that each
   participant receives the professional/medical services required to meet his or
   her goals as identified in the person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care,
   through the support of the SLR provider to coordinate and ensure receipt of
   the professional/medical services. Professional/medical services may include,
   but are not limited to, the following disciplines or services:
   
   
   
   (a)	Medicine;
   
   
   
   (b)	Dentistry;
   
   
   
   (c)	Education;
   
   
   
   (d)	Nutrition;
   
   
   
   (e)	Nursing;
   
   
   
   (f)	Occupational therapy;
   
   
   
   (g)	Physical therapy;
   
   
   
   (h)	Psychology;
   
   
   
   (i)	Social work;
   
   
   
   (j)	Speech, hearing and language therapy; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Recreation.

   993.8. Each provider of supported living services shall provide or ensure the
   provision of transportation services to enable the persons to gain access to
   Waiver and other community services and activities. If transportation services
   are provided by the SLR, the provider shall meet the requirements governing
   transportation services set forth in section 1903 of Title 29 DCMR.

   993.9. Each provider of supported living services shall be a social services
   agency as described in Chapter 9 of Title 29 of the District of Columbia
   Municipal Regulations (DCMR), Section 1903.1. In addition, the provider shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be a member of the person&#8217;s interdisciplinary team;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a current District of Columbia Medicaid Provider Agreement that
   authorizes the provider to bill for Supported Living Services under the
   Waiver;
   
   
   
   (c)	Maintain a copy of the most recent IHP or ISP and Plan of Care that has
   been approved by DDS for each person;
   
   
   
   (d)	Have a current Human Care Agreement with DDS for the provision of
   residential services;
   
   
   
   (e)	Ensure that all supported living services staff are qualified and properly
   supervised pursuant to all applicable rules;
   
   
   
   (f)	Ensure that all providers have a plan to provide staff interpreters for
   non-English speaking persons;
   
   
   
   (g)	Ensure that the service provided is consistent with the person&#8217;s IHP
   or ISP and Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   (h)	Offer the Hepatitis B vaccination to each person providing services
   pursuant to these rules;
   
   
   
   (i)	Provide staff training in infection control procedures consistent with the
   standards established by the Federal Centers for Disease Control and
   Prevention;
   
   
   
   (j)	Ensure compliance with DDS policies governing reporting of unusual
   incidents, human rights, behavior management, and protection of person&#8217;s
   funds;
   
   
   
   (k)	Ensure that each SLR, to the extent necessary, is accessible to public
   transportation and emergency vehicles;
   
   
   
   (l)	Ensure that each SLR, to the extent necessary, is handicapped accessible
   and barrier-free;
   
   
   
   (m)	Provide a written staffing schedule for each location where services are
   provided;
   
   
   
   (n)	Comply with the requirements of the Health-Care Facility Unlicensed
   Personnel Criminal Background Check Act of 1998, effective April 20, 1999
   (D.C. Law 12-238), as amended by the Health-Care Facility Unlicensed Personnel
   Criminal Background Check Amendment Act of 2002, effective April 13, 2002
   (D.C. Law 14-98; D.C. Official Code ยง 44-551 et seq.).
   
   
   
   (o)	Provide DDS and the Department of Health&#8217;s Medical Assistance
   Administration with at least ninety (90) days advance written notice of intent
   to terminate supported living services; and
   
   
   
   (p)	Provide persons receiving supported living services with at least thirty
   (30) days advance written notice prior to the effective date of the
   termination of services in the form prescribed by DDS and be responsible for
   notifying DDS of those persons who are undergoing treatment of an acute
   condition. The written notice shall be provided to
   
   
   
   (1)	The name of the person for whom supported living services are being
   terminated;
   
   
   
   (2)	The address of the person for whom supported living services are being
   terminated;
   
   
   
   (3)	The proposed last date of service to be provided;
   
   
   
   (4)	Contact information for the provider employee from whom additional
   information can be obtained with respect to the person&#8217;s transition to
   new residential services;
   
   
   
   (5)	Information regarding the transition process; and
   
   
   
   (6)	Information regarding the person&#8217;s rights as it relates to the
   discontinuation of services.

   993.10. Each person providing supported living services for a person shall
   meet all of the requirements in Chapter 19 to Title 29 DCMR, section 1911 in
   addition to the requirements set forth below:
   
   
   
   (a)	Complete competency based training in emergency procedures; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Be certified annually in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and First Aid.

   993.11. Each provider shall cooperate with the DDS service coordination in
   providing access and information as requested for case management visits and
   reviews.

   993.12. Each provider of supported living services shall review the
   person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care goals, objectives, and activities
   at least quarterly and more often, as necessary. The provider shall propose
   modifications to the IHP or ISP and Plan of Care, as appropriate. The results
   of these reviews shall be submitted to the case manager within thirty (30)
   days of the end of each quarter. Each provider shall participate in IHP or ISP
   and Plan of Care development so that community integration goals are clearly
   defined. Each provider shall also assist in the coordination of all services
   that a person may receive.

   993.13. Each provider of supported living services shall maintain progress
   notes on a weekly basis, or more frequently if indicated, on the IHP or ISP
   and Plan of Care, participant attendance rosters on a daily basis, and
   maintain current financial records of expenditures of public and private funds
   for each person. The progress notes shall include at a minimum documentation
   that demonstrates:
   
   
   
   (a)	Progress in meeting each goal in the ISP assigned to the supported living
   services provider;
   
   
   
   (b)	A list of all community activities the person participates in and the
   person&#8217;s response to each activity;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any unusual health events, side effects to medication, change in health
   status, behavioral event, use of a restrictive procedure or unusual incident;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	Each visitor the person receives, special events, and any situation or
   event requiring follow-up.

   993.14. Each provider of supported living services shall maintain all records
   and reports for at least six (6) years after the person&#8217;s date of
   discharge.

   993.15. Supported living services shall not be reimbursed when provided by a
   member of the person&#8217;s family.

   993.16. Reimbursement for supported living services under the Waiver shall not
   include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Cost of room and board;
   
   
   
   (b)	Cost of facility maintenance, upkeep and improvement, modifications or
   adaptations to a home to meet the requirements of the applicable life safety
   code; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Activities for which payment is made by a source other than Medicaid.

   993.17. The reimbursement rate for supported living services shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	All direct support staff and supervision of support staff;
   
   
   
   (b)	All nursing provided in the residence for medication administration,
   physician ordered protocols and procedures, charting, other supports as per
   physician&#8217;s orders, and maintenance of Health Management Care Plan;
   
   
   
   (c)	Programmatic supplies and indirect expenses; and,
   
   
   
   (d)	General and administrative fees for waiver services.
   
   
   
   The billable unit of service for supported living services shall be fifteen
   (15) minutes. A provider shall provide at least eight (8) minutes of service
   in a span of fifteen (15) continuous minutes to be able to bill a unit of
   service.

   993.18. The reimbursement rate for supported living services shall be as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Basic Support Level 1 staff asleep overnight daily rate for a SLR with
   three (3) residents the rate shall be one hundred and ninety-five dollars
   ($195.00) for a direct care staff support ratio of 1:3 during all hours when
   residents are in the home billable in quarter hour units of two dollars and
   three cents ($2.03) per unit;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Basic Support Level 2 staff awake overnight daily rate for a SLR with
   three (3) residents shall be two hundred forty dollars ($240.00) for a direct
   care staff support ratio of 1:3 for staff awake overnight and 1:3 during all
   awake hours when residents are in the home billable in quarter hour units of
   two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per unit;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Moderate Support Level 1 staff asleep overnight daily rate for a SLR
   with three (3) residents shall be two hundred eighty-six dollars ($286.00) for
   a direct care staff support ratio of 2:3 for eight (8) hours a day, 1:3 during
   the remaining awake hours, and 1:3 staff asleep overnight coverage when
   residents are in the home billable in quarter hour units of two dollars and
   ninety-eight cents ($2.98) per unit;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Moderate Support Level 2 staff awake overnight daily rate for a SLR
   with three (3) residents shall be three hundred thirty dollars ($330.00) for a
   direct care staff support ratio of 2:3 for eight (8) hours a day, 1:3 during
   remaining awake hours, and 1:3 staff awake coverage when residents are in the
   home billable in quarter hour units of three dollars and forty-four cents
   ($3.44) per unit;
   
   
   
   (e)	The Intensive Support Level 1 daily rate for a SLR with three (3)
   residents shall be three hundred fifty-nine dollars ($359.00) for a direct
   care staff support ratio of 1:3 for staff awake overnight and 2:3 during all
   awake hours when residents are in the home and adjusted for increased
   absenteeism billable in quarter hour units of three dollars and seventy-four
   cents ($3.74) per unit;
   
   
   
   (f)	The Intensive Support Level 2 daily rate for a SLR with three (3)
   residents shall be four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00) for a direct care
   staff support ratio of 2:3 for staff awake overnight and 2:3 during all awake
   hours when residents are in the home and adjusted for increased absenteeism
   billable in quarter hour units of four dollars and sixty-nine cents ($4.69)
   per unit;
   
   
   
   (g)	The Basic Support Level 1 staff asleep overnight daily rate for a SLR with
   two (2) residents shall be two hundred sixty-two dollars ($262.00) for a
   direct care staff support ratio of 1:2 staff asleep overnight coverage and 1:2
   staff awake coverage during all hours when residents are in the home billable
   in quarter hour units of two dollars and seventy-three cents ($2.73) per unit;
   
   
   
   (h)	The Basic Support Level 2 staff awake overnight daily rate for a SLR with
   two (2) residents shall be three hundred twenty-two dollars ($322.00) for a
   direct care staff support ratio of 1:2 for staff awake overnight and 1:2
   during all awake hours when residents are in the home billable in quarter hour
   units of three dollars and thirty five cents ($3.35) per unit;
   
   
   
   (i)	The Moderate Support Level 1staff awake overnight daily rate for a SLR
   with two (2) residents shall be three hundred eighty-three dollars ($ 383.00)
   for a direct care staff support ratio of 2:2 for four (4) hours a day, 1:2
   during remaining awake hours and 1:2 staff awake coverage when residents are
   in the home billable in quarter hour units of three dollars and ninety-nine
   cents ($ 3.99) per unit;
   
   
   
   (j)	The Moderate Support Level 2 daily rate in a SLR with two (2) residents
   shall be four hundred forty-four dollars ($444.00) for a direct care staff
   support ratio of 1:2 for staff awake overnight and 2:2 for eight (8) hours a
   day, 1:2 during remaining awake hours when residents are in the home and
   adjusted for increased absenteeism billable in quarter hour units of four
   dollars and sixty-three cents ($4.63) per unit;
   
   
   
   (k)	The Intensive Support Level 3 daily rate in a SLR with two (2) residents
   shall be four hundred eighty-two dollars ($482.00) for a direct care staff
   support ratio of 1:2 for staff awake overnight and 2:2 for all awake hours
   when residents are in the home and adjusted for increased absenteeism billable
   in quarter hour units of five dollars and two cents ($5.02) per unit;
   
   
   
   (l)	The hourly rate for periodic supported living services shall be twenty-two
   dollars ($22.00) per hour billable in quarter hour units of five dollars and
   fifty cents ($5.50) per unit; and
   
   
   
   (m)	There shall be a specialized service rate determined through a negotiated
   request for proposals process when determined necessary by DDS to serve
   individuals with extraordinary medical and/or behavioral health needs.

   993.19. Individualized twenty-four (24) hour one-to-one supervision shall only
   be permitted with prior annual approval of the DDS Human Rights Committee or a
   medical treatment plan signed by the person&#8217;s physician. To be eligible
   for reimbursement for one-to-one supported living services, the person shall
   be required to have a behavior support plan and meet at least one of the
   characteristics set out in section 979.12 for paraprofessional one-to-one
   services or at least one of the characteristics set out in section 979.13 for
   professional one-to-one services. For purpose of this section 993.19, in
   addition to the requirements for paraprofessional one-to-one services and
   professional one-to-one services as set out in section 979.99, supported
   living one-to-one services means services provided to one person exclusively
   by a supported living services provider who has been trained in all general
   requirements and possesses all training required to implement the
   person&#8217;s specific behavioral and/or clinical protocols and support plans
   for a pre-authorized length of time. One-to-one supported living services
   shall be reimbursed at the daily rate of four hundred and ninety-five dollars
   ($495.00) for one-to-one services with awake overnight staff, billable in
   quarter hour units of five dollars and sixteen cents ($5.16) per unit.
   One-to-one supported living services with asleep overnight staff or for any
   additional people in the same house with another person receiving one-to-one
   services shall be reimbursed at the daily rate of four hundred three dollars
   ($403.00), billable in quarter hour units of four dollars and twenty cents
   ($4.20) per unit. The rate adjustment for multiple people in the same house
   receiving one-to-one services avoids duplication of administrative and
   management fees.

   993.20. Acuity shall be determined by a review of each person&#8217;s IHP or
   ISP or Plan of Care. Participants shall be designated with a support level
   that is consistent with their current staffing level if other acuity
   indicators are not yet in place. Any request(s) to increase or decrease
   staffing ratios shall be reviewed and adjudicated by a committee appointed by
   the Director of DDS that shall review current staffing levels, available
   health and behavioral records, and any available standardized acuity
   instrument results to determine if a person has a health or behavioral acuity
   that requires modified supports.

   993.21. Long-term twenty-four (24) hour paid support single-person placements
   in a SLR are only permitted for a person having a history of challenging
   behaviors that may put others at risk and requires intensive supports as
   determined by a psychological assessment or pursuant to a court order. The
   psychological assessment shall be updated on an annual basis to determine the
   continued necessity for this single, twenty-four (24) hour placement.

   993.22. Each provider of supported living services shall coordinate the
   delivery of necessary behavioral support services, and skilled nursing
   services from approved Waiver providers of those services based on the
   requirements of the IHP or ISP and Plan of Care.

   993.23. Supported living services shall not be billed concurrently with the
   following Waiver services:
   
   
   
   (a)	Residential Habilitation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Respite;
   
   
   
   (c)	Host Home;
   
   
   
   (d)	Live-in Caregiver; and
   
   
   
   (e)	In-Home Supports.

   993.24. Supported living services shall not be billed when the person is
   hospitalized, on vacation, or for any other period in which the person is not
   residing at the SLR. The reimbursement rates assume a ninety-three (93)
   percent annual occupancy, and unanticipated absence from day/vocational
   services or employment due to illness, and planned absence for holidays. Daily
   activities such as day treatment, day habilitation services, prevocational
   services, supported employment services, or employment are typically scheduled
   for five (5) hours per day five (5) days per week, and scheduling day
   activities in excess of five (5) hours per day five (5) days per week shall
   result in an hour-for-hour decrease in the supported living services
   reimbursement. Reimbursement shall be calculated based on the time the person
   is scheduled to be in their place of residence, except the provider may
   include the time that the individual is being transported by the provider to
   day programs, employment, professional appointments, community outings and
   events.

   993.25. Direct care staff shall be dressed, alert and maintain support logs
   during the entire shift of awake hours. The provider shall maintain a log of
   scheduled activities that specifies when the person is scheduled to be in
   their home on a daily basis.

   993.99. DEFINITIONS
   
   
   
   When used in this section, the following terms and phrases shall have the
   meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Awake &#8211; For purposes of staffing and determining the reimbursement rates
   for supported living services, awake hours of the day with absence from day
   program, weekend, or holiday shall be approximately 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.,
   and for purposes of awake hours for all other days shall be approximately 6:00
   am to 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   
   
   
   Community Integration &#8211; Participation in events outside of the
   person&#8217;s place of residence that may include shopping, dining, attending
   movies, plays, and other social events. The plan from section 993.12 should
   identify community and social events appropriate for the person.
   
   
   
   Direct Care Staff &#8211; Individuals employed to work in a SLR who render the
   day-to- day, personal assistance that person requires in order to meet the
   goals of his or her IHP or ISP and Plan of Care.
   
   
   
   Family &#8211; Any person who is related to the person receiving services by
   blood, marriage or adoption.
   
   
   
   Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) &#8211; That plan as set forth in section
   403 of the Mentally Retarded Citizens Constitutional Rights and Dignity Act of
   1978, effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-137; D.C. Official Code ยง
   7-1304.03).
   
   
   
   Individual Support Plan (ISP) &#8211; The successor to the individual
   habilitation plan (IHP) as defined in the 2001 Plan for Compliance and
   Conclusion of Evans v. Williams.
   
   
   
   Interdisciplinary Team &#8211; A group of persons with special training and
   experience in the diagnosis and habilitation of mentally retarded persons who
   have the responsibility of performing a comprehensive person evaluation while
   participating in the development, implementation, and monitoring of the
   person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care.
   
   
   
   Overnight &#8211; For purposes of staffing and the reimbursement rates for
   supported living services, the overnight period shall be approximately from
   10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
   
   
   
   Person or Participant &#8211; An individual with intellectual and
   developmental disabilities who has been determined eligible to receive
   services under the Home and Community-based Services Waiver for Persons with
   Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities (Waiver).
   
   
   
   Plan of Care &#8211; A written service plan that meets the requirements set
   forth in section 1904.4 of Title 29 DCMR, is signed by the person receiving
   services, and is used to prior authorize Waiver services.
   
   
   
   Progress Notes &#8211; Notes that observe (1) progress in meeting each goal in
   the IHP or ISP and Plan of Care, which is the responsibility of the residence;
   (2) the list of community activities for the week and the participant&#8217;s
   response to each activity; (3) any unusual health events; (4) any visitors the
   participant received; and (5) anything requiring follow-up or action.
   
   
   
   Provider &#8211; Any non-profit, home health agency, social service agency or
   other business entity that provides services pursuant to these rules.
   
   
   
   Supported Living Residence (SLR) &#8211; A community residence or home, other
   than an intermediate care facility for persons with mental retardation, which
   provides a homelike environment for not more than three (3) related or
   unrelated persons who require specialized living arrangements and maintains
   necessary staff, programs, support services, and equipment for their care and
   habilitation.
   
   
   
   Waiver &#8211; Shall mean the Home and Community-based Services Waiver for
   Persons with Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities as approved by
   the Council of the District of Columbia (Council) and the U.S. Department of
   Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS),
   as may be further amended and approved by the Council and CMS.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 1678 (February 13, 2004); as
   Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 6435 (June 29, 2007); as Final Rulemaking
   published at 55 DCR 10154 (October 3, 2008).
