                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPPORTED EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (ยง 29-929)

929.1. Supported employment services shall be reimbursed by the District of
   Columbia Medicaid Program for each participant in the Home and Community-based
   Services Waiver for Persons with Mental Retardation and Developmental
   Disabilities (Waiver) subject to the requirements set forth in this section.

   929.2. Supported employment is intended for individuals for whom competitive
   employment has not traditionally occurred or has been interrupted. The aim of
   supported employment services is to emphasize the assets, preferences and
   skills of the person and to match the person to a job that maximizes those
   assets and minimizes deficits.

   929.3. Supported employment shall consist of paid competitive work that offers
   ongoing support services in an integrated work setting where wages are paid at
   or above minimum, consistent with the Fair Labor Standards Act. The level of
   employment participation may be full-time or part-time based on the interests
   and abilities of the individual.

   929.4. Supported employment services eligible for reimbursement shall be as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Intake and assessment;
   
   
   
   (b)	Job placement;
   
   
   
   (c)	Job training and support; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Follow-along services.

   929.5. Supported employment services are ineligible for reimbursement if the
   services are available to the person through programs funded under Title I of
   the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112; 29 U.S.C. ยง 720 et seq.) or
   the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (Pub. L. 91-230; 20 U.S.C. ยง
   1400 et seq.) (hereinafter the &#8220;Acts&#8221;). Each person receiving
   supported employment services shall submit documentation that demonstrates
   that services are not otherwise available pursuant to the Acts referenced
   above, for inclusion in his or her record and individual habilitation plan
   (IHP) or individual support plan (ISP) and Plan of Care. Court-ordered
   vocational assessment shall be provided by authorizing intake and assessment
   services under this section if services provided through programs funded under
   Title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 cannot provide assessment services
   in the timeframe set forth in the Court&#8217;s Order.

   929.6. Professionals authorized to provide supported employment activities
   without supervision are as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor;
   
   
   
   (b)	A person with a Master&#8217;s degree and a minimum of one (1) year of
   experience working with persons with intellectual and developmental
   disabilities;
   
   
   
   (c)	A person with a bachelors degree and two years of experience working in
   supported employment; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A Rehabilitation Specialist.

   929.7. Paraprofessionals authorized to perform supported employment activities
   under the supervision of a professional listed in section 929.6 are as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Job Coaches; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Employment Specialists. Supervision is not intended to mean that the
   paraprofessional performs supported employment activities in view of the
   professional authorized in section 929.6, but rather that the paraprofessional
   has a supervisor who meets those qualifications.

   929.8. Intake and assessment activities include, but are not limited to, the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Conducting an individualized vocational and situational assessment;
   
   
   
   (b)	Developing an individualized employment plan that includes the
   person&#8217;s job preferences and desires;
   
   
   
   (c)	Assessing person-centered employment information, including the
   employee&#8217;s interest in doing the job, transportation to and from work,
   family support, and financial issues;
   
   
   
   (d)	Counseling an interested person on the tasks necessary to start a
   business; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Providing individual and/or group employment counseling.

   929.9. As a result of intake and assessment activities, the provider shall
   complete and deliver a comprehensive vocational assessment report to the
   Department on Disability Services (DDS) Service Coordinator that includes the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Employment-related strengths and weaknesses (e.g., task focus);
   
   
   
   (b)	Available family and community supports;
   
   
   
   (c)	Personal concerns;
   
   
   
   (d)	Accommodations and supports that may be required on the job; and
   
   
   
   (e)	If a specific job or entrepreneurial effort has been targeted the
   assessment may also include:
   
   
   
   (1)	Individualized training needed to acquire and maintain acceptable
   production skills;
   
   
   
   (2)	Anticipated level of interventions that will be required by the job coach;
   
   
   
   (3)	Type of integrated work environment in which the person can potentially
   succeed; and
   
   
   
   (4)	If the individual is not immediately employable, activities and supports
   that are need to improve potential for employment.

   929.10. Intake and assessment activities shall be billed at the unit rate.
   This service shall not exceed three hundred twenty (320) units annually. A
   standard unit of service is fifteen (15) minutes and the provider shall
   provide at least eight (8) continuous minutes of service to bill one (1) unit
   of service. The reimbursement rate is forty-three dollars ($43.00) per hour if
   performed by a professional listed in section 929.6. The reimbursement rate is
   twenty-five dollars and thirty cents ($25.30) per hour if performed by a
   paraprofessional under the supervision of a professional listed in section
   929.7. If extended intake and assessment services are required, the provider
   shall submit a written justification to the DDS Service Coordinator and the
   DDA Waiver Office a minimum of ten (10) business days before the prior
   authorized services have been expended. DDS shall review the submission and
   approve or disapprove the request for extension within ten (10) business days
   of receipt. Services shall continue if DDS does not respond to the written
   request within ten (10) business days of receipt. Disapproval will be
   accompanied by notice of Fair Hearing Rights through the Department of
   Health&#8217;s Medical Assistance Administration (MAA). The disposition also
   shall be documented in the person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care. Intake
   and assessment shall be prior authorized by DDS as a discrete service and no
   other supported employment services will be approved without the development
   and delivery of the completed vocational assessment to the DDS Service
   Coordinator.

   929.11. Job placement activities eligible for reimbursement include, but are
   not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Conducting workshops or other activities designed to assist the person in
   completing employment applications or preparing for interviews;
   
   
   
   (b)	Conducting workshops or other activities to instruct persons on proper
   work attire, behaviors and expectations;
   
   
   
   (c)	Completing job applications with or on behalf of the person;
   
   
   
   (d)	Assisting the person with job exploration and placement, including
   assessing opportunities for advancement;
   
   
   
   (e)	Visiting employment sites and attending employment networking events;
   
   
   
   (f)	Making telephone calls to prospective employers, utilizing the internet,
   magazines, newspapers and other publications as leads;
   
   
   
   (g)	Collecting descriptive data regarding various types of employment
   opportunities, for purposes of preparing a standardized set of requirements
   for prospective employees;
   
   
   
   (h)	Negotiating employment terms with or on behalf of the person;
   
   
   
   (i)	Working with the person to develop and implement a plan to start a
   business, including developing a business plan, developing investors or start
   up capital, and other tasks necessary to starting a small business; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Working with interested persons and employers to develop group placements.

   929.12. Job placement activities shall be billed at the unit rate. This
   service shall not exceed four hundred (400) units annually. A standard unit of
   service is fifteen (15) minutes and the provider shall provide at least eight
   (8) continuous minutes of service to bill for one (1) unit of service. The
   reimbursement rate is forty-three dollars ($43.00) per hour when performed by
   a professional listed in section 929.6. The reimbursement rate is twenty-five
   dollars and thirty cents ($25.30) per hour if performed by a paraprofessional
   under the supervision of a professional listed in section 929.7. If extended
   job placement services are required, the provider shall submit a written
   justification in support of the extended services to the DDS Service
   Coordinator and the DDA Waiver Office a minimum of ten (10) business days
   before the prior authorized services have been expended. DDS shall review the
   submission and approve or disapprove the request for extension within ten (10)
   business days of receipt. Services shall continue if DDS does not respond to
   the written request within ten (10) business days of receipt. Disapproval will
   be accompanied by notice of Fair Hearing Rights through MAA. The disposition
   shall be documented in the person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care.

   929.13. Job training and support activities are those activities designed to
   assist and support the person after employment has been obtained. The
   expectation is that the job training and support activities are faded as the
   individual gains job skills, and support from the existing work structure is
   increasingly sufficient to maintain employment. Job training and support
   activities eligible for reimbursement include, but are not limited to, the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	On-the-job training in work and work-related skills required to perform on
   the job;
   
   
   
   (b)	Work site support that is intervention-oriented and designed to enhance
   work performance, modify inappropriate behaviors, re-training as jobs change,
   ongoing counseling, and assistance to ensure job retention;
   
   
   
   (c)	Supervision and monitoring of the person in the workplace;
   
   
   
   (d)	Training in related skills essential to obtaining and maintaining
   employment, such as the effective use of community resources, break or lunch
   rooms, transportation systems, mobility training and changing jobs.
   
   
   
   (e)	Monitoring and providing information and assistance regarding wage and
   hour requirements, appropriateness of placement, integration, number of hours
   worked, need for adaptations and offsite supports such as transportation
   services;
   
   
   
   (f)	Consulting with other professionals and the person&#8217;s family, as
   necessary; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Consulting with the person&#8217;s employer, co-workers or supervisors, as
   necessary.

   929.14. Job training and support activities shall not exceed one thousand, two
   hundred and eighty (1280) units per Plan of Care year. A standard unit of
   service is fifteen (15) minutes and the provider shall provide at least eight
   (8) continuous minutes of service to bill one (1) unit of service. The
   reimbursement rate is forty-three dollars ($43.00) per hour when performed by
   a professional listed in section 929.6. The reimbursement rate is twenty-five
   dollars and thirty cents ($25.30) per hour if performed by a paraprofessional
   under the supervision of a professional listed in section 929.7. If extended
   job training and support activities are required the provider shall submit a
   written justification in support of the extended services to the DDS Service
   Coordinator for review. DDS shall review the submission and approve or
   disapprove the request for extension within ten (10) business days of receipt.
   Services shall continue if DDS does not respond to the written request within
   ten (10) business days of receipt. Disapproval will be accompanied by notice
   of Fair Hearing Rights through MAA. The disposition also shall be documented
   in the person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care.

   929.15. Long-term follow-along activities eligible for reimbursement include,
   but are not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Periodic monitoring of job stability;
   
   
   
   (b)	Interventions to address issues that threaten job stability;
   
   
   
   (c)	Providing retraining or cross training when job duties change;
   
   
   
   (d)	Facilitating integration and natural supports at the job site; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Facilitating job advancement and job mobility.

   929.16. Follow-along activities shall be reimbursed at the same rates as set
   forth in section 929.14 and shall not exceed seven hundred and sixty-eight
   (768) units per Plan of Care year. A standard unit of service is fifteen (15)
   minutes and the provider shall provide at least eight (8) continuous minutes
   of service to bill one (1) unit of service. If extended follow-along services
   are required, the provider shall submit a written justification to the DDS
   Service Coordinator and the DDA Waiver Office a minimum of ten (10) business
   days before the prior authorized services have been expended. DDS shall review
   the submission and approve or disapprove the request for extension within ten
   (10) business days of receipt. Services shall continue if DDS does not respond
   to the written request with ten (10) business days of receipt. Disapproval
   will be accompanied by notice of Fair Hearing Rights through MAA. The
   disposition also shall be documented in the person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan
   of Care.

   929.17. The three models of supported employment eligible for reimbursement
   shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Individual job support;
   
   
   
   (b)	Group supported employment; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Entrepreneurial.

   929.18. Group supported employment services are delivered when there is more
   than one (1) person at the job site who is receiving supported employment
   services from the supported employment services provider. The job coach shall
   provide training and other services as described in 929.13 to each Waiver
   participant as needed. The rate for this service is sixteen dollars and forty
   cents per hour ($16.40) billable in fifteen (15) minute units of four dollars
   and ten cents ($4.10). The provider shall provide at least eight (8)
   continuous minutes of service to bill one (1) unit of service. This rate
   assumes a maximum of four (4) persons are receiving support in the same job
   location, and are receiving job coaching services from one (1) supported
   employment services staff person. Each Waiver participant may be billed for
   the time the job coach is supporting any of the four (4) participants.

   929.19. Each provider shall provide the ongoing supports at the work site
   needed for the person to obtain job stability after employment has been
   obtained. Once the person is stable on the job, the provider shall make a
   minimum of two (2) job site contacts per month for the purpose of monitoring
   job stability.

   929.20. Reimbursement for supported employment services provided at the work
   site in which persons without disabilities are employed shall only be made for
   adaptations, supervision and training required by the person who receives
   Waiver services pursuant to these rules. No payment shall be made for
   supervisory activities, which are rendered as a normal part of the business
   setting.

   929.21. When applicable, each provider shall be certified by the U.S.
   Department of Labor.

   929.22. When applicable, each provider shall coordinate with DDS/DDA and the
   employer for the provision of appropriate services for each person requiring
   physical assistance to accomplish basic activities of daily living on the work
   site.

   929.23. When applicable, each provider shall coordinate with the employer to
   ensure that each person has access to appropriate first aid on the work site.

   929.24. Supported employment services shall be pre-authorized and provided in
   accordance with each person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care.

   929.25. Each provider shall develop a plan that addresses how the provider
   will meet the needs and communicate with non-English speaking persons.

   929.26. Each provider of supported employment services shall be a social
   services agency as described in Chapter 19 of Title 29 (Public Welfare) of the
   District of Columbia Municipal Regulations (DCMR), Section 1903.1. In
   addition, the provider agrees to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be a member of the person&#8217;s interdisciplinary team;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a current District of Columbia Medicaid Provider Agreement that
   authorizes the provider to bill for Supported Employment Services under the
   Waiver; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Maintain a copy of the most recent IHP or ISP and Plan of Care that has
   been approved by DDS for each person.

   929.27. Each person providing supported employment services for a provider
   under section 929.26 shall meet the requirements in Chapter 19 to Title 29 of
   the District of Columbia Municipal Regulations (DCMR), section 1911.

   929.28. Supported employment services may be provided either exclusively as
   the vocational service or in combination with prevocational or day
   habilitation services. Supported employment services shall not be provided
   concurrently with day treatment, day habilitation or prevocational services.

   929.29. Supported employment services shall be provided for a maximum of eight
   (8) hours in a day and five (5) days in a week. The provider shall submit a
   written justification in support of the extended services to the DDS Service
   Coordinator for review. DDS shall review the submission and approve or
   disapprove the request for extension within ten (10) business days of receipt.
   Any disapproval shall be accompanied by notice of Fair Hearing Rights through
   MAA. The disposition shall be documented in the person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and
   Plan of Care.

   929.30. Supported employment services providers shall not bill for incentive
   payments, subsidies or unrelated vocational training expenses such as the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Incentive payments made to an employer to encourage or subsidize the
   employer&#8217;s participation in a supported employment services program;
   
   
   
   (b)	Payments that are passed through to users of supported employment services
   programs; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Payments for vocational training that is not directly related to the
   person&#8217;s supported employment services program.

   929.31. Each supported employment services provider shall maintain service
   records that accurately and adequately link the services billed to the IHP or
   ISP and Plan of Care for each participant receiving services, including:
   
   
   
   (a)	Person&#8217;s name;
   
   
   
   (b)	Staff person&#8217;s name;
   
   
   
   (c)	Date(s) of activities;
   
   
   
   (d)	Start and end times of activities;
   
   
   
   (e)	Purpose of activities; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Location of activities.

   929.32. Each supported employment services provider shall record and report:
   
   
   
   (a)	Occurrences or behaviors by a participant that impede the progress of the
   group or the individual participant;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any unusual circumstances or events that impact the stability of the group
   or the individual participant;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any individual unusual incidents; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Actions taken to address behaviors or unusual circumstances.

   929.33. Supported employment services providers shall submit to the DDS
   Service Coordinator a completed quarterly update of the IHP or ISP. The report
   shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name of the each person;
   
   
   
   (b)	Confirmation that wages exceed minimum wage;
   
   
   
   (c)	Average hours a week worked by each person;
   
   
   
   (d)	Hours of activities for each person if not engaged in employment; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Aggregate calculation of wages earned, hours worked and hours of
   activities for persons not engaged in employment.

   929.34. Each supported employment services provider shall maintain a copy of
   each person&#8217;s record at least six (6) years after the date of discharge.

   929.35. Time spent in transportation to and from the program shall not be
   included in the total amount of services provided per day. However, time spent
   in transportation to and from the program for the purpose of training the
   participant on the use of transportation services may be included in the
   number of hours of services provided per day for a period of time specified in
   the person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care.

   929.99. DEFINITIONS
   
   
   
   When used in this section, the following terms and phrases shall have the
   meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Employment Specialist &#8211; A person with a four-year college degree and a
   minimum of one (1) year of experience in a supported employment program; a
   person with a college degree and certification from the Commission on
   Rehabilitation Counselor Certification or a similar national organization; or
   a person with a high school degree and three (3) years of experience in a
   supported employment program.
   
   
   
   Entrepreneurial &#8211; Development and on-going support for micro-enterprises
   owned and operated by the participant. This assistance consists of: (a)
   assisting the participant to identify potential business opportunities; (b)
   assisting the participant in the development of a business and launching a
   business; (c) identification of the supports that are necessary in order for
   the participant to operate the business; and (d) ongoing assistance,
   counseling and guidance once the business has been launched.
   
   
   
   Group &#8211; An employment situation in competitive employment in which a
   group of four or fewer participants with disabilities are working at a
   particular work setting. The participants may be disbursed throughout the
   company and among workers without disabilities or congregated as a group in
   one part of the business.
   
   
   
   Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) &#8211; That plan as set forth in section
   403 of the Mentally Retarded Citizens Constitutional Rights and Dignity Act of
   1978, effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-137; D.C. Official Code ยง
   7-1304.03).
   
   
   
   Individual Supported Employment &#8211; A supported employment strategy in
   which a job coach places a participant into competitive employment through a
   job discovery process, provides training and support, and then gradually
   reduces time and assistance at the work site.
   
   
   
   Individual Support Plan (ISP) &#8211; The successor to the individual
   habilitation plan (IHP) as defined in the 2001 Plan for Compliance and
   Conclusion of Evans v. Williams.
   
   
   
   Intake &#8211; A process designed to obtain information about the person and
   their needs as it relates to community integration and employment.
   
   
   
   Integrated Work Setting &#8211; A work setting that provides daily contact
   with other employees and/or the general public.
   
   
   
   Job Coach &#8211; A person with a four-year college degree and a minimum of
   one (1) year of experience in a supported employment program; a person with a
   college degree in a social services discipline and certification from the
   Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification or a similar national
   organization; or a person with a high school degree and three (3) years of
   experience in a supported employment program.
   
   
   
   Long-term follow along activities &#8211; Ongoing support services necessary
   to assure job retention.
   
   
   
   Person or Participant &#8211; An individual with intellectual and
   developmental disabilities who has been determined eligible to receive
   services under the Home and Community-based Services Waiver for Persons with
   Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities (Waiver).
   
   
   
   Plan of Care &#8211; A written service plan that meets the requirements set
   forth in section 1904.4 of Title 29 DCMR, is signed by the person receiving
   services, and is used to prior authorize Waiver services.
   
   
   
   Provider &#8211; Any non-profit, home health agency, social service agency or
   other business entity that provides services pursuant to these rules.
   
   
   
   Waiver &#8211; The Home and Community-based Services Waiver for Persons with
   Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities as approved by the Council
   of the District of Columbia (Council) and the U.S. Department of Health and
   Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), as may be
   further amended and approved by the Council and CMS.
   
   
   
   Rehabilitation Specialist &#8211; A persons with a Master&#8217;s degree in
   Rehabilitation Counseling or a similar degree from an accredited university; a
   person with a Master&#8217;s degree in a social services discipline and a
   minimum of one (1) year of experience in a supported employment program; or a
   person with a Master&#8217;s degree in a social services discipline and
   certification from the Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification or
   a similar national organization.
   
   
   
   Situational Assessment &#8211; A type of assessment that provides the person
   an opportunity to explore job tasks in real work environments in the
   community. This assessment is useful in identifying the type of employment
   that may be beneficial to the person and the support required by each person
   to succeed in the work environment. Provides competitive or real work sites in
   the community for the systemic assessment and observation of the person;
   identifies work site characteristics and person adaptations, training
   procedures, support needs related to the person&#8217;s success in supported
   employment; and recommends specific plans for further services, including the
   appropriateness of continuing supported employment.
   
   
   
   Vocational Assessment &#8211; An assessment designed to assist persons, their
   family and service providers with specific employment related data that will
   generate positive employment outcomes. The assessment outlines the life,
   relationships, challenges, and perceptions of the person as they relate to
   potential sources of community support and mentorship.
   
   
   
   Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor &#8211; A persons with a Master&#8217;s
   degree in Vocational Counsel Counseling, Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling
   or a similar degree from an accredited university; a person with a
   Master&#8217;s degree in a social services discipline and a minimum of one (1)
   year of experience in a supported employment program; or, a person with a
   Master&#8217;s degree in a social services discipline and certification from
   the Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification or a similar national
   organization.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4095 (April 23, 2004); as Final
   Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 10143 (October 3, 2008).
