                                  DC REGULATIONS

BEHAVIORAL SUPPORT SERVICES (§ 29-937)

937.1. Behavioral support services shall be reimbursed by the District of
   Columbia Medicaid Program for each person in the Home and Community-based
   Services Waiver for Persons with Mental Retardation and Developmental
   Disabilities (Waiver) subject to the requirements set forth in this section.

   937.2. Behavioral support services are services designed to support and
   encourage the person in his or her decision to reside within the community;
   decrease the impact of a behavioral event; assist the person in developing
   alternative and more effective communication, adaptive and coping mechanisms;
   and enable the person to achieve positive personal outcomes. These services
   shall be available to all Waiver-eligible persons to prevent any unnecessary
   change in placement; placement in a more restrictive environment; prevent a
   psychiatric hospitalization; enhance the person&#8217;s ability to lead a more
   typical life; and support the positive development of community living skills
   and social relationships.

   937.3. Behavioral support services shall be authorized and provided in
   accordance with each person&#8217;s Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) or
   Individual Support Plan (ISP) and Plan of Care. To qualify for this service,
   each person must be referred by the support team to address specific
   behavioral support needs that jeopardize the person&#8217;s health and
   welfare, and/or interfere with the person&#8217;s ability to gain independent
   living skills.

   937.4. To be eligible for any additional behavioral support services, the
   provider shall develop a Diagnostic Assessment that is a clinical and
   functional evaluation of a person&#8217;s psychological and behavioral
   condition. Based on this evaluation, the provider shall develop a Diagnostic
   Assessment Report, including recommendations as to whether to continue or
   discontinue services. The Diagnostic Assessment shall also determine whether
   the person may benefit from a Behavior Support Plan (BSP), based upon the
   person&#8217;s presenting problems and behavioral goals. The Diagnostic
   Assessment shall also evaluate the person&#8217;s level of readiness and
   motivation to respond to behavioral intervention. The Diagnostic Assessment
   Report shall include the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The names of individuals to contact in the event of a crisis;
   
   
   
   (b)	Conflict resolution counseling and problem solving strategies used to date
   and their effectiveness;
   
   
   
   (c)	A written evaluation, including a full description of the target behavior;
   antecedents to the target behavior; history of reinforcers used and their
   effectiveness; environmental contributors to the target behavior; contributing
   medical and psychiatric diagnoses; and proposed interventions as needed; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Recommendation for any needed continuing services.

   937.5. Development of the required plan set forth in section 937.4 shall be
   based on the following activities:
   
   
   
   (a)	Interviews with the person and his/her support staff as well as others as
   appropriate;
   
   
   
   (b)	Observations of the person at his/her residence and in the community;
   
   
   
   (c)	Conversations with family members, friends and other professionals;
   
   
   
   (d)	Review of all available and pertinent data;
   
   
   
   (e)	Interpreting results of laboratory or other medical diagnostic studies;
   and
   
   
   
   (f)	Medical and psychiatric history.

   937.6. If the Diagnostic Assessment requires development of a BSP, that plan
   shall be consistent with the following guideline:
   
   
   
   The goal of developing and implementing a Behavior Support Plan is to identify
   techniques and strategies that will build on a person&#8217;s skills,
   abilities, and motivations to help him or her develop positive alternatives to
   identified challenging behavior. The BSP should emphasize positive, proactive
   and effective strategies, and should minimize and seek to eliminate the use of
   restricted or intrusive procedures for the individual and circumstance. The
   BSP may also include the limited use of restrictive procedures, but only with
   the consent and approval of the person and/or their guardian, the agreement of
   the individual&#8217;s support team, and the written approval of the
   Department on Disability Services (DDS) Human Rights Committee or its
   Restricted Control Review Committee. The form for including the use of
   restricted controls is available from DDS. A formal BHP includes:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the techniques for gathering information;
   
   
   
   (b)	The goals of the BSP;
   
   
   
   (c)	Strategies for positive behavior support;
   
   
   
   (d)	Requirements for training staff and other caregivers;
   
   
   
   (e)	Support strategy tracking documentation;
   
   
   
   (f)	Review schedule of BSP progress toward goals; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Regular (at least quarterly) professional assessments of BSP progress
   toward goals.

   937.7. Ongoing behavioral support services eligible for reimbursement include,
   but shall not be limited to, the following services:
   
   
   
   (a)	Training to create positive environments and coping mechanisms, as well as
   developing interventions, teamwork, and evaluation strategies to assess the
   effectiveness of interventions;
   
   
   
   (b)	Consultative services to assist in the development of person-specific
   strategies; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Follow-up services, including personal progress assessment.

   937.8. Behavioral support services shall be available to family members,
   service providers, or other individuals that provide support and/or services
   to the person.

   937.9. Behavioral support services may be provided to supplement traditional
   medical and clinical services available under the District of Columbia State
   Plan for Medical Assistance.

   937.10. Each provider of behavioral support services shall be:
   
   
   
   (a)	An independent professional in private practice as defined in Title 29
   DCMR, Chapter 19, General Provisions, Section 1903.2;
   
   
   
   (b)	A Freestanding Mental Health Clinic as defined in Chapter 8 of Title 29
   DCMR;
   
   
   
   (c)	Employed by a home health agency as defined in Title 29 DCMR, Chapter
   19,General Provisions, Section 1903.3; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Employed by a social service agency as defined in Title 29 DCMR, Chapter
   19, General Provisions, Section 1903.

   937.11. The agency or therapist in private practice shall have a current
   Medicaid Provider Agreement that authorizes the service provider to bill for
   behavioral support services. Persons authorized to provide all services
   without supervision shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Psychologist;
   
   
   
   (b)	Psychiatrist;
   
   
   
   (c)	Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker;
   
   
   
   (d)	Advance Practice Registered Nurse or Nurse-Practitioner;
   
   
   
   (e)	Licensed Professional Counselor;
   
   
   
   (f)	Licensed Graduate Social Worker; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Certified Behavior Analysts® in jurisdictions where that credential is
   accepted.

   937.12. Persons authorized to provide behavioral support services under the
   supervision of qualified practitioners set forth in section 937.11 shall be as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Registered Nurse;
   
   
   
   (b)	Behavior Management Specialists; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Associate Behavior Analysts® in jurisdictions where that credential is
   accepted.

   937.13. Each professional in section 937.11 shall have at least one (1) year
   of experience in a setting providing habilitation and positive behavioral
   support services to persons with developmental disabilities and possess
   professional knowledge of psychological principles, theories, and methods with
   an ability to develop and implement treatment and behavior support plans

   937.14. Each non-licensed professional in section 937.12 shall have a minimum
   of one (1) year of experience developing, implementing, and monitoring
   behavior intervention plans and developing effective positive behavioral
   interventions aimed at reducing and replacing challenging behaviors with more
   typical and appropriate ones.

   937.15. Diagnostic Assessments shall be requested as a service in the IHP or
   ISP and Plan of Care. All other services in this rule shall be authorized
   based on the recommendations of a Diagnostic Assessment completed within the
   previous eighteen (18) months.

   937.16. The reimbursement rate for each Diagnostic Assessment under section
   937.4 shall be two hundred forty dollars ($240.00) and shall be at least three
   (3) hours in duration, including the development of the written Diagnostic
   Assessment.

   937.17. The reimbursement rate for the development of the BSP under section
   937.5 and professional follow-up visits performed by professionals under
   section 937.10 shall be one hundred three dollars and twenty cents ($103.20)
   per hour.

   937.18. The reimbursement rate for the development of ongoing behavioral
   support services under section 937.6 shall be sixty dollars ($60.00) per hour.

   937.19. Individualized supervision shall be permitted with prior authorization
   of the DDS Human Rights Committee and shall be reimbursed at the hourly rate
   of twenty-two dollars ($22.00) for behavioral support one-to-one services.
   These behavioral support one-to-one services shall be provided by an intensive
   behavioral support direct care paraprofessional and shall be formally reviewed
   every three (3) months by the behavioral support services provider, and the
   reports shall be submitted to the DDS Human Rights Committee and Case
   Management. To be eligible for reimbursement for behavioral support one-to-
   one services, the person shall be required to have a Behavioral Support Plan
   (BSP) and shall meet at least one of the characteristics set out in section
   979.12 for paraprofessional one to one services. For purposes of this section
   937.19, in addition to the requirements for paraprofessional one-to-one
   services as set out in section 979.99, behavioral support one-to-one services
   means services provided to one person exclusively by a behavioral support
   services provider who has been trained in all general requirements, who
   possesses specialized training in physical management techniques and positive
   behavior support practices, and who possesses all other training required to
   implement the person&#8217;s specific BSP, including behavioral and/or
   clinical protocols, for a pre-authorized length of time.

   937.99. DEFINITIONS
   
   
   
   When used in this section, the following terms and phrases shall have the
   meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Advanced Practice Registered Nurse or Nurse-Practitioner &#8211; A person who
   is licensed to practice as a registered nurse pursuant to the District of
   Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986
   (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1201 et seq.), and meets the
   additional licensure requirements for practice in a particular area as an
   advance practice registered nurse or nurse- practitioner in accordance with
   D.C. Official Code § 3-1206.08(a) or (c), or is licensed as a registered
   nurse and meets additional national certification standards for practice in a
   particular area as an advance practice registered nurse or nurse- practitioner
   in the jurisdiction where services are provided.
   
   
   
   Behavioral support services &#8211; Services that are designed as an ongoing
   preventive and consultative service to improve and maintain outcomes in the
   health, attitude and behavior of the person.
   
   
   
   Certified Behavior Analysts® &#8211; A person who meets the Behavior Analyst
   Certification Board (BCBA®) requirements to become a Board Certified Behavior
   Analyst.
   
   
   
   Associate Behavior Analysts® &#8211; A person who meets the Behavior Analyst
   Certification Board (BCABA®) requirements to become a Board Certified
   Associate Behavior Analyst.
   
   
   
   Behavior Management Specialist &#8211; A person who has the training and
   experience in the theory and technique of changing the behavior of individuals
   to enhance their learning of life skills, adaptive behaviors, and to decrease
   maladaptive behaviors and works under the supervision of a licensed
   practitioner.
   
   
   
   Diagnostic Assessment &#8211; Includes (1) indirect assessment techniques such
   as interviews, written record reviews and questionnaires; (2) direct
   assessment techniques such as observation of the person, documentation of the
   frequency, duration and intensity of problem behaviors; and (3) the evaluation
   of the relationship between the environmental and emotional variables and the
   occurrence of problem behaviors.
   
   
   
   Freestanding mental health clinic &#8211; The same meaning as set forth in
   Chapter 8 of Title 29 DMCR.
   
   
   
   Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) &#8211; That plan as set forth in section
   403 of the Mentally Retarded Citizens Constitutional Rights and Dignity Act of
   1978, effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-137; D.C. Official Code §
   7-1304.03).
   
   
   
   Individual Support Plan (ISP) &#8211; The successor to the individual
   habilitation plan (IHP) as defined in the 2001 Plan for Compliance and
   Conclusion of Evans v. Williams.
   
   
   
   Licensed Graduate Social Worker &#8211; A person who is licensed as a graduate
   social worker pursuant to the District of Columbia Health Occupations Revision
   Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code §
   3-1202 et seq.) or licensed as a graduate social worker in the jurisdiction
   where the services are being provided.
   
   
   
   Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker &#8211; A person who is licensed
   as an independent clinical social worker pursuant to the District of Columbia
   Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law
   6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1202 et seq.) or licensed as an independent
   clinical social worker in the jurisdiction where the services are being
   provided.
   
   
   
   Licensed Professional Counselor &#8211; A person who is licensed to practice
   professional counseling pursuant to the District of Columbia Health
   Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99;
   D.C. Official Code § 3-1202 et seq.) or licensed as a professional counselor
   in the jurisdiction where the services are being provided.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; An individual with intellectual and developmental disabilities
   who has been determined eligible to receive services under the Home and
   Community-based Services Waiver for Persons with Mental Retardation and
   Developmental Disabilities (Waiver).
   
   
   
   Plan of Care &#8211; A written service plan that meets the requirements set
   forth in section 1904.4 of Title 29 DCMR, is signed by the person receiving
   services, and is used to prior authorize Waiver services.
   
   
   
   Private Practice &#8211; An individual whose practice is an unincorporated
   solo practice or unincorporated partnership. Private practice also includes an
   individual who is practicing as an employee of an unincorporated practice, a
   professional corporation, or other incorporated practice. Private practice
   does not include individuals when they are working as employees of a hospital,
   nursing facility, clinic, home health agency, rehabilitation facility or any
   other entity that has a Medicaid provider agreement which includes behavior
   support services in the provider&#8217;s reimbursement rate.
   
   
   
   Psychiatrist &#8211; A person who is licensed to practice psychiatry pursuant
   to the District of Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective
   March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1202 et seq.) or
   licensed as a psychiatrist in the jurisdiction where the services are being
   provided.
   
   
   
   Psychologist &#8211; A person who is licensed to practice psychology pursuant
   to the District of Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective
   March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1202 et seq.) or
   licensed as a psychologist in the jurisdiction where the services are being
   provided.
   
   
   
   Registered Nurse &#8211; A person who is licensed as a registered nurse
   pursuant to the District of Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985,
   effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1202 et
   seq.), or licensed as a registered nurse in the jurisdiction where the
   services are being provided.
   
   
   
   Regular Work Hours &#8211; The hours of 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through
   Friday, except days determined to be holidays by the District of Columbia
   government.
   
   
   
   Waiver &#8211; The Home and Community-based Services Waiver for Persons with
   Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities as approved by the Council
   of the District of Columbia (Council) and the U.S. Department of Health and
   Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), as may be
   further amended and approved by the Council and CMS.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 3944, 3950 (June 15, 1990); as
   Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 8469 (October 10, 2003); as Final
   Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 2348 (March 16, 2007); as Final Rulemaking
   published at 55 DCR 2866 (March 21, 2008).
