                                  DC REGULATIONS

MEDICAID CLINIC SERVICES AND REIMBURSEMENT (§ 29-943)

943.1. Clinic services for Medicaid beneficiaries shall be furnished in a
   public or private medically-based facility, under the direction of a
   physician, nurse mid-wife or nurse practitioner.

   943.2. Clinic services provided by a nurse mid-wife or nurse practitioner
   shall be governed in accordance with the rules governing advanced practice
   registered nurses issued pursuant to the authority set forth in the District
   of Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986
   (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1202 et seq.).

   943.3. Clinic services shall consist of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Preventive services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Diagnostic services;
   
   
   
   (c)	Therapeutic services;
   
   
   
   (d)	Rehabilitative services; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Palliative services.

   943.4. Clinic services shall be provided as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	To beneficiaries in an outpatient setting;
   
   
   
   (b)	By a facility that is not part of a hospital; and
   
   
   
   (c)	By or under the direction of a physician or advanced practice registered
   nurse.

   943.5. Clinic services shall only be provided inside the clinic facility.

   943.6. A clinic shall have a medical staff which is licensed by the laws of
   the District of Columbia pursuant to the District of Columbia Health
   Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99;
   D.C. Official Code § 3-1202 et seq.), to provide medical services to Medicaid
   beneficiaries.

   943.7. A physician who provides or directs clinic services shall not be
   required to be an employee of the clinic, but shall have a direct affiliation
   with the clinic.

   943.8. A physician shall be considered to have a direct affiliation with a
   clinic when a contractual agreement or some other type of formal arrangement
   exists between the clinic and the physician.  The agreement shall state the
   amount of time to be spent within the clinic in accordance with accepted
   standards of medical practice.

   943.9. A physician who directs clinic services shall not be required to stay
   on the clinic premises, but shall assure that the services provided are
   medically necessary and shall assume professional responsibility for the
   services provided.

   943.10. A physician, nurse midwife or nurse practitioner employed or
   affiliated with a clinic shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	See each beneficiary at least once;
   
   
   
   (b)	Prescribe the type of care provided by the clinic; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Periodically review the need for continued clinic care, if the clinic
   services are not limited by the prescription.

   943.11. Public clinics shall receive an interim rate for clinic services on a
   per unit basis, which shall be the lesser of the provider’s billed charges
   or the statewide enterprise interim rate. The unit of service shall be
   consistent with the requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and
   Accountability Act of 1996, approved August 21, 1996 (P.L. 104-191; 42 U.S.C.
   201 et seq.), and comply with the current procedural terminology (CPT) or
   Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) codes.

   943.12. The final reimbursement rates for medical services delivered in a
   public clinic shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the reasonable costs of
   providing services to Medicaid beneficiaries as reported in the Public Clinic
   and Clinic Laboratory Cost (PCCLC) Report.

   943.13. Reasonable costs shall be divided into two (2) categories:
   
   
   
   (a)	Direct costs or expenses that can be charged to a direct medical service
   cost center. Direct costs may include but are not limited to salaries,
   benefits, medically-related contracted services, medically-related supplies
   and materials or any other cost that can be charged to a direct medical cost
   center. Direct costs shall be reduced by the amount of any federal payments
   received by the provider for these costs; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Indirect costs or expenses that are not directly related to a direct
   medical service cost center. Indirect costs include overhead and other costs
   common to an operational clinic, and may include but are limited to,
   administration, financial, public relations, data processing, housekeeping,
   maintenance, security, insurance, utilities, legal, seminars, conferences,
   training and meetings.  Indirect costs shall be determined by applying the
   public clinic unrestricted indirect costs rates to its adjusted direct costs.

   943.14. Statistical or other evidence shall be used as the basis for
   allocating costs to public clinic services and determining the Medicaid
   eligibility rate. The Medicaid eligibility rate shall be based on the
   percentage of Medicaid beneficiaries receiving service in each individual
   clinic relative to the entire population receiving service in each individual
   clinic.

   943.15. The cost reconciliation process shall be conducted for the reporting
   period covered by the annual PCCLC Report. Interim payments to public clinics
   shall be compared to Medicaid reimbursable costs at the federal financial
   participation level to compute the amount due to or from the program.

   943.16. Each public clinic shall certify on an annual basis an amount equal to
   each interim rate times the units of service reimbursed during the previous
   federal fiscal quarter. In addition, each public clinic shall certify on an
   annual basis through its cost report its total, actual incurred allowable
   costs and expenditures, including the federal share and non federal share.
   Public clinics shall only be permitted to certify Medicaid-allowable costs and
   shall not be permitted to certify any indirect costs that are not included on
   the annual cost report.

   943.17. Each public clinic shall complete the annual PCCLC Report for all
   clinic services delivered during the fiscal year covering October 1 through
   September 30. The cost report shall be due on or before June 30 of the
   following year, with the cost reconciliation and settlement process completed
   by September 30 of the subsequent year.

   943.18. If a public clinic’s interim payments exceed its actual, certified
   costs, the public clinic shall return an amount equal to the overpayment to
   DHCF. If the actual certified costs exceed the interim Medicaid payments, the
   federal share of the difference shall be paid to the public clinic.  DHCF
   shall issue a notice of settlement indicating the amount to be received from
   the provider or paid to the provider.

   943.19. Reimbursement for private clinic medical services shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	One hundred percent (100%) of Medicare rates for services provided by
   physicians;
   
   
   
   (b)	The current District of Columbia Medicaid fee-for-service rates for
   services provided by non-physicians; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Eighty percent (80%) of Medicare rates for future services provided by
   non-physicians.

   943.20. Medicaid fee schedules for private clinics shall be published on the
   DHCF website at www.dhcf.dc.gov.

   943.21. Federally qualified health centers shall be reimbursed pursuant to 29
   DCMR Chapter 45.

   943.22. Dental services shall be reimbursed pursuant to 29 DCMR Chapter 9.

   943.23. Free standing mental health clinic services shall be reimbursed
   pursuant to the methodology set forth in 29 DCMR Chapter 8.

   943.99. When used in this section, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Diagnostic service – a medical procedure or supply recommended by a
   physician or other licensed practitioner of the healing arts, within the scope
   of his or her practice under state or District law, to enable him or her to
   identify the existence, nature, or extent of illness, injury, or other health
   deviation in a beneficiary.
   
   
   
   Palliative service – a patient and family-centered service that optimizes
   quality of life by anticipating, preventing, and treating suffering. 
   Palliative services involve addressing physical, intellectual, emotional,
   social, and spiritual needs and facilitating patient autonomy, access to
   information, and choice.
   
   
   
   Preventive service – a service provided by a physician or other licensed
   practitioner of the healing arts within the scope of his or her practice under
   state or District law to prevent disease, disability, or other health
   conditions or their progression, prolong life, or promote physical and mental
   health and efficiency.
   
   
   
   Private clinic – a clinic within the District of Columbia that is enrolled
   as a District Medicaid provider and is not a public clinic.
   
   
   
   Public clinic – a clinic within the District of Columbia, which is a
   governmental entity that is owned, operated, managed, or leased by the
   District of Columbia government, providing Medicaid reimbursable services.
   
   
   
   Rehabilitative service – a medical or remedial service recommended by a
   physician or other licensed practitioner of the healing arts, within the scope
   of his or her practice under state or District law, for maximum reduction of
   physical or mental disability and restoration of a recipient to his or her
   best possible functional level.
   
   
   
   Therapeutic Service – a service and support for an individual with a
   principal diagnosis of mental illness, a serious emotional or behavioral
   disorder, or a substance-related disorder.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10523 (November 12,
   2010).
