                                  DC REGULATIONS

STANDARDS FOR MEDICAID REIMBURSEMENT OF PARENTERAL, ENTERAL AND INFUSION THERAPY
IN THE HOME (§ 29-906)

906.1. Parenteral, enteral or infusion therapy shall only be provided by home
   health agencies certified for participation in the D.C. Medicaid Program.

   906.2. Parenteral, enteral or infusion therapy in the home shall only be
   approved if the following conditions are present:
   
   
   
   (a)	Parenteral therapy shall be considered medically necessary only for a
   patient with severe pathology of the alimentary tract which does not allow
   absorption of sufficient nutrients to maintain weight and strength
   commensurate with the patient&#8217;s general condition.
   
   
   
   (b)	Enteral therapy shall be considered medically necessary only for a patient
   with a functioning gastrointestinal tract who due to pathology or non-function
   of the structures that normally permit food to reach the digestive tract
   cannot maintain weight and strength commensurate with his or her general
   condition. Enteral therapy may be given by nasogastric, jejunostomy, or
   gastrostomy tubes; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Infusion therapy shall be considered medically necessary only for a
   patient that without the administration of infusible pharmaceuticals in a
   residential setting, would require the patient to remain in or be admitted to
   a hospital.

   906.3. Prior authorization and reporting requirements shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Providers of parenteral, enteral or infusion therapy shall obtain prior
   authorization from the Medical Assistance Administration (MAA) before
   treatment is begun;
   
   
   
   (b)	To obtain prior authorization, the home health agency shall submit a
   written plan of treatment that has been prescribed by a physician for each
   patient;
   
   
   
   (c)	The home health agency shall include the name and address of the
   supplier(s) providing the materials, drugs and equipment;
   
   
   
   (d)	The home health agency shall send monthly reports that detail the status
   of patients receiving parenteral, enteral or infusion therapy and any
   revisions in the plan of treatment to the MAA;
   
   
   
   (e)	Verification of supplies and/or drugs utilized shall also be included in
   the monthly reports; and
   
   
   
   (f)	If the therapy period was less than one month, the home health agency
   shall send written reports, detailing drug and supply utilization, to MAA for
   those patients receiving the parenteral, enteral or infusion therapy at the
   completion of therapy.

   906.4. MAA shall reimburse for professional services in accordance with the
   current Medicaid rates of reimbursement for home health visits.

   906.5. Reimbursement for drugs and supplies shall not exceed the area
   prevailing charges and shall be made as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The home health agency shall submit invoices for medical supplies and
   drugs directly to MAA;
   
   
   
   (b)	MAA shall determine the appropriate amount to be paid and reimburse the
   home health agency; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Unless the medical record establishes that the recipient due to his or her
   physical or mental state is unable to safely or effectively mix solution and
   there is no family member or other person who can do so, generally payment
   shall not be made for pre-mixed solutions.

   906.6. Unless prior authorized by MAA, reimbursement to a pharmacy or provider
   of durable medical equipment for drugs or equipment shall be subject to the
   following terms and conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Upon notification of the closure of the home health agency providing
   services to the recipient until a new home health agency has been selected by
   the recipient for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days; or
   
   
   
   (b)	If a recipient&#8217;s physician and home health agency have determined
   that the professional services associated with enteral feeding by j tube, g
   tube and ng tube is no longer required and that the caregiver has met the
   training criteria for enteral feeding.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: The authority for this section is D.C. Code, 2001 Ed. §1-307.02;
   Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1996, 3 D.C. Code, 2001 Ed. at 413; and Mayor’s
   Order 97-42 (February 18, 1997).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 8192 (August 31, 2001).
