                                  DC REGULATIONS

QUALIFICATIONS FOR A DISPROPORTIONATE SHARE HOSPITAL (§ 29-908)

A hospital located in the District of Columbia shall be deemed a
   disproportionate share hospital (DSH) for purposes of a special payment
   adjustment if a hospital has at least one percent (1%) Medicaid utilization
   and the hospital has at least two (2) obstetricians with staff privileges at
   the hospital who have agreed to provide obstetric services to Medicaid
   eligible individuals; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The hospital’s Medicaid inpatient utilization rate is at least one (1)
   standard deviation above the mean Medicaid inpatient utilization rate for
   hospitals in the District who are Medicaid providers; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The hospital’s low income utilization rate exceeds twenty-five per cent
   (25%).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A hospital whose inpatients are predominately individuals under eighteen (18)
   years of age or did not offer non-emergency obstetric services to the general
   population as of December 1, 1987, shall not be required to have two (2)
   obstetricians as required in subsection 908.1.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not later than June 1st of each year, all District hospitals that have a valid
   Medicaid Provider Agreement shall file such information as the Department of
   Health Care Finance (DHCF) requires, including the completion of the DHCF DSH
   Data Collection Tool. This data, together with data from each hospital’s
   cost report as filed for the same period shall be used to determine
   participation in the disproportionate share distribution. Failure to submit
   the DSH Data Collection Tool may result in the withholding of reimbursement to
   the hospital for inpatient and outpatient services rendered to Medicaid
   beneficiaries enrolled in fee-for-service and managed care programs.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The District of Columbia may limit the total DSH payments that it will make to
   qualifying DSH hospitals beginning July 4, 2010, and each fiscal year
   thereafter.  The annual District DSH limit in a fiscal year shall be equal to
   the District’s annual federal DSH allotment, expressed in total computable
   dollars, for the same fiscal year reduced by the sum of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The total amount expended by the District for services provided in the
   same fiscal year under the authority of the Medicaid Waiver to enable the
   District government to expand coverage of the Medicaid program to childless
   adults from fifty (50) to sixty-four (64) years of age;
   
   
   
   (b)	The total amount expended by the District for services provided in the
   same fiscal year under the authority of any approved Medicaid Waiver enabling
   the District government to expand coverage of the Medicaid program for a
   population or service not covered as of July 4, 2010; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Five million, six hundred thirty-six thousand, five hundred and
   seventy-one dollars ($5,636,571) paid to the D.C. Health Care Safety Net
   Administration for inpatient hospital services and coordinated health care for
   the uninsured under the D.C. Healthcare Alliance Program (Alliance).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The total amount expended by the District for services provided under
   subsection 908.4(a) and (b) shall be an amount, as determined ninety (90) days
   after the end of each fiscal year, which shall equal the sum of:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The actual liabilities incurred and received by the District for waiver
   services to expand coverage of the Medicaid program to childless adults fifty
   (50) to sixty-four (64) years of age and any other Medicaid Waiver to expand
   coverage of the Medicaid program for a population or service not covered as of
   July 4, 2010; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The District’s best estimate of incurred, but not yet received, liabilities
   as of the same date. The District’s best estimate shall not be subject to
   revision at a later date.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any hospital which meets the disproportionate share eligibility requirements
   set forth in subsections 908.1 and 908.2 shall be paid on a quarterly basis.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Each new provider shall be eligible to receive a DSH payment adjustment
   calculated in accordance with this section. Each new provider shall be
   required to submit a complete hospital fiscal year cost report and a completed
   DSH Data Collection tool, and any additional data required by the Medicaid
   program. The DSH payment adjustment shall be calculated taking into account
   the data submitted by each qualifying new provider and all other qualifying
   hospitals. The DSH payment adjustment to each new provider shall begin the
   following District fiscal year after the hospital qualifies as DSH hospital.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Effective July 4, 2010, and in accordance with section 1923(c)(3) of the
   Social Security Act, the District of Columbia Medicaid Program shall establish
   three (3) categories of hospitals to pay each hospital that qualifies as a DSH
   hospital:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The first category shall include all public psychiatric hospitals, which
   includes St. Elizabeths Hospital;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The second category shall include the District’s licensed specialty hospital
   that provides acute care pediatric services and provides the greatest number
   of Medicaid inpatient days of all hospitals in this category; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The third category shall include all remaining qualifying hospitals that are
   not included in the first or second categories.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The annual District DSH limit to DSH qualifying hospitals shall be distributed
   as follows:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Each qualifying public psychiatric DSH hospital as set forth in subsection
   908.8(a) shall be paid an amount equal to its total uncompensated care for
   District residents. The total amount of uncompensated care shall consist of
   the sum of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Medicaid allowable inpatient and outpatient hospital costs, minus 
   reimbursement for these costs;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All District funded health care programs, such as the Alliance, Immigrant
   Children’s Program, Child and Family Services Administration, etc.,
   inpatient and outpatient costs determined in accordance with the requirements
   set forth in section 1923 (g)(1) of the Social Security Act and 42 CFR § 447;
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Uncompensated inpatient and outpatient care determined in accordance with the
   requirements set forth in 42 CFR § 447.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The qualifying hospitals in the second and third categories shall be paid in
   accordance with the following methodology:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Calculate the total uncompensated care provided to residents of the District
   for each hospital.  The amount of uncompensated care for District residents
   shall consist of the sum of the following:
   
   
   
   (A)	Medicaid allowable inpatient and outpatient hospital costs, minus
   reimbursement for these costs;
   
   
   
   (B)	All District-funded health care programs, such as the Alliance, Immigrant
   Children’s Program, Child and Family Services Administration, etc.,
   inpatient and outpatient costs determined in accordance with the requirements
   set forth in section 1923(g)(1) of the Social Security Act and 42 CFR § 447;
   and
   
   
   
   (C)	Uncompensated inpatient and outpatient care determined in accordance with
   the requirements set forth in 42 CFR § 447;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For each hospital, multiply the inpatient costs as determined in subsection
   908.9(b)(1) by the percent of inpatient days attributable to individuals
   served for those costs;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For each hospital, multiply the outpatient costs as determined in subsection
   908.9(b)(1) by the percent of outpatient visits attributable to individuals
   served for those costs;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Add the products of subsections 908.9(b)(2) and (3) for all hospitals;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For each hospital, calculate the percent distribution by adding the products
   of subsections 908.9(b)(2) and (3) and then divide by subsection 908.9(b)(4);
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Multiply the percent distribution for each hospital determined in accordance
   with subsection 908.9(b)(5) by the annual District DSH limit.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The qualifying DSH hospital in the second category shall receive twelve
   million five hundred thousand dollars ($12,500,000) in addition to the amount
   calculated in § 908.9(b).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For a Medicaid participating District hospital that is reimbursed on a cost
   settled reimbursement methodology for inpatient hospital services, the
   uncompensated care amount for Medicaid inpatient services calculated in
   subsection 908.9(b)(1)(A) shall be zero (0).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	DHCF shall recalculate the DSH payments every year.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any payment adjustment computed in accordance with subsection 908.9 is subject
   to the limit on payments to individual hospitals established by section
   1923(g) of the Social Security Act. The amount of any payment that would have
   been made to any hospital, but for the limit on payments established by
   section 1923(g), shall be distributed proportionately among the remaining
   qualifying hospitals based on the ratio of the hospital’s hospital-specific
   payment adjustment to the aggregate DSH payment adjustment for all hospitals.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any DSH payment adjustments computed in accordance with subsection 908.9 are
   subject to the limits on payments to Institutions for Mental Disease,
   established by section 1923(h) of the Social Security Act. The amount of any
   payment that would have been made to a public or private hospital, but for the
   limit on payments established by section 1923(h), shall be distributed
   proportionately among the remaining qualifying hospitals in the second and
   third categories, based on the ratio of the hospital’s hospital-specific
   payment adjustment to the aggregate DSH payment adjustment for all hospitals.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If, during any fiscal year, the annual District DSH limit is not sufficient to
   pay the full amount of any DSH payment adjustment computed in accordance with
   subsection 908.9, then each hospital in the first, second, and third
   categories shall be paid a proportional amount of their computed DSH
   adjustment amount.  The final DSH payment for each hospital shall equal the
   product of its DSH payment adjustment computed in accordance with section
   908.9 and a fraction determined by the following formula:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The numerator shall equal the annual District DSH limit; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The denominator shall equal the aggregate DSH payment adjustment for all
   hospitals computed in accordance with section 908.9.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DHCF shall conduct audits to ensure compliance with the requirements set forth
   in section 1923(j) of the Social Security Act.  Each hospital shall allow
   appropriate staff from DHCF or authorized agents of the District of Columbia
   government or federal government access to all financial records, medical
   records, statistical data, and any other records necessary to verify costs and
   any other data reported to the Medicaid program.

   908.99. DEFINITIONS
   
   
   
   For purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the meanings
   ascribed:
   
   
   
   Annual District DSH limit &#8211; The annual District established aggregate
   limit for DSH payments. This term shall not be construed as the annual federal
   DSH allotment for the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Low Income Utilization Rate &#8211; The sum of two (2) fractions, both
   expressed as percentages. The numerator of the first fraction is the sum of:
   1) total revenues paid the hospital during its fiscal year for Medicaid
   patient services; and 2) the amount of any cash subsidies for patient services
   received directly from the State or the District government. The denominator
   shall be the total amount of revenues of the hospital for patient services
   (including the amount of such cash subsidies) in the same fiscal year. The
   numerator of the second fraction is the total amount of the hospital’s
   charges for inpatient hospital services, which are attributable to charity
   care in the fiscal year, minus the portion of the cash subsidies reasonably
   attributable to inpatient services. The denominator of the second fraction
   shall be the total amount of the hospital’s charges for inpatient hospital
   services in that fiscal year.
   
   
   
   Medicaid Inpatient Utilization Rate &#8211; The percentage derived by dividing
   the total number of Medicaid inpatient days of care rendered during the
   hospital’s fiscal year by the total number of inpatient patient days for
   that year.
   
   
   
   New Provider &#8211; Any District hospital that meets the qualifications of a
   DSH hospital pursuant to the requirements set forth in subsection 908.1 after
   October 1, 2011.
   
   
   
   Total Computable Dollars &#8211; Total Medicaid DSH payments, including the
   federal and District share of financial participation.
   
   
   
   Uncompensated Care &#8211; The cost of inpatient and outpatient care provided
   to Medicaid eligible individuals and uninsured individuals consistent with the
   requirements set forth in 42 CFR § 447.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 2755 (May 4, 1990); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 7432 (October 2, 1992); as Final
   Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 6897 (August 25, 2000); as Final Rulemaking
   published at 48 DCR 8967 (September 28, 2001); as Final Rulemaking published
   at 54 DCR 2825 (March 30, 2007); as amended by Notice of Emergency and
   Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 5758 (July 2, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 12202, 12203
   (December 24, 2010).
