                                  DC REGULATIONS

OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY SERVICES (§ 29-935)

935.1. Occupational therapy services shall be reimbursed by the Medicaid
   Program for each participant in the Home and Community-Based Services Waiver
   for Persons with Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities subject to
   the requirements set forth in this section.

   935.2. To be eligible for reimbursement, occupational therapy services shall
   be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ordered by a physician;
   
   
   
   (b)	Reasonable and necessary to the treatment of the person&#8217;s illness,
   injury, or long term disability or to the restoration or maintenance of
   function affected by the injury, illness or long term disability; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Included in the person&#8217;s individual habilitation plan (IHP) or
   individual support plan (ISP) and Plan of Care.

   935.3. Each person providing occupational therapy services shall be an
   employee of a home health agency or an occupational therapist in private
   practice with a current District of Columbia Medicaid Provider Agreement that
   authorizes the provider to bill for occupational therapy services under the
   Waiver.

   935.4. In addition to the other requirements of this section, the occupational
   therapist in private practice shall meet all of the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Maintain a private office, even if services are always furnished in the
   person&#8217;s home;
   
   
   
   (b)	Meet all state and local licensure laws and rules;
   
   
   
   (c)	Maintain a minimum of one (1) million dollars in liability insurance;
   
   
   
   (d)	Ensure that occupational therapy services are provided consistent with the
   person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   (e)	If services are provided in a private practice office space, the space
   shall be owned, leased or rented by the private practice and be used
   exclusively for the purpose of operating the private practice; and
   
   
   
   (f)	An occupational therapy assistant, licensed in the District of Columbia
   (D.C. Laws 16-220 and 16-221) or in the state where services are provided,
   shall be personally supervised by the occupational therapist. Occupational
   therapy assistants shall also be employed by the occupational therapist or the
   partnership group to which the occupational therapist belongs or the same
   private practice that employs the occupational therapist. Personal supervision
   requires the occupational therapist to be in the room during the performance
   of the service.

   935.5. Each person providing occupational therapy services shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be a licensed occupational therapist or be an occupational therapy
   assistant working under the direct supervision of a licensed occupational
   therapist;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a minimum of two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist
   or occupational therapy assistant;
   
   
   
   (c)	Be acceptable to the person to whom services are provided;
   
   
   
   (d)	Demonstrate annually that he or she is free from communicable disease as
   confirmed by an annual PPD Skin Test or documentation from a physician;
   
   
   
   (e)	Have at least one (1) year of experience working with persons with mental
   retardation and developmental disabilities;
   
   
   
   (f)	Agree to carry out the responsibilities to provide services consistent
   with the person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   (g)	Complete pre-service and in-service training approved by DDS;
   
   
   
   (h)	Have the ability to communicate with the person to whom services are
   provided;
   
   
   
   (i)	Be able to read, write, and speak the English language; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Comply with the requirements of the Health-Care Facility Unlicensed
   Personnel Criminal Background Check Act of 1998, effective April 20, 1999
   (D.C. Law 12-238), as amended by the Health-Care Facility Unlicensed Personnel
   Criminal Background Check Amendment Act of 2002, effective April 13, 2002
   (D.C. Law 14-98; D.C. Official Code § 44-551 et seq.).

   935.6. Each occupational therapist shall provide the Department on Disability
   Services (DDS) and the Medical Assistance Administration with a brochure
   listing their academic background, licensure information, experience and the
   nature of their practice to assist those who may receive services in making
   their provider selection.

   935.7. An occupational therapist, without regard to their employer of record,
   shall be selected by the person receiving services or their guardian or legal
   representative to provide services to the person receiving services and shall
   be answerable to the person receiving services. Any organization substituting
   practitioners for more than a two week period or four visits due to emergency
   or availability events shall request a case conference with the DDS Case
   Manager so that the person receiving services can select a new practitioner.

   935.8. The duties of each person providing occupational therapy services shall
   include, at a minimum, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Preparing a report that summarizes the physician&#8217;s order, measures
   the person&#8217;s strength, range of motion, balance and coordination,
   posture, muscle performance, respiration, and motor functions and developing
   and describing treatment plans that describe treatment strategies including
   direct therapy, training caregivers, monitoring requirements, monitoring
   instruments, monitoring instructions, and anticipated outcomes;
   
   
   
   (b)	Maintaining ongoing involvement and consultation with other service
   providers and caretakers;
   
   
   
   (c)	Ensuring that the person&#8217;s needs are met in accordance with the
   physician&#8217;s order;
   
   
   
   (d)	Providing consultation and instruction to the person, family, or other
   caregivers;
   
   
   
   (e)	Recording progress notes on each visit; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Conducting periodic examinations and modifying treatments for the person
   receiving services, when necessary.

   935.9. The occupational therapist shall be responsible for providing written
   documentation in the form of reports, assessments for occupational therapy
   services, physician&#8217;s orders, visit notes, progress notes, and other
   pertinent documentation of the person&#8217;s progress or lack of progress,
   medical conditions, functional losses, and treatment goals that demonstrate
   that the services are and continue to be reasonable and necessary. The
   documentation shall include evidence that services did not exceed the
   authorized frequency and duration as authorized for occupational therapy
   services in the physician&#8217;s order. The agency or occupational therapist
   in private practice shall maintain a copy of the documentation for at least
   six (6) years after the person&#8217;s date of service.

   935.10. The reimbursement rate for occupational therapy services shall be
   sixty-five dollars ($65.00) per hour for a full assessment of the individual,
   preparation of summary documentation, and delivery of that documentation. The
   billable unit of service for occupational therapy services shall be fifteen
   (15) minutes. A provider shall provide at least eight (8) minutes of service
   in a span of fifteen (15) continuous minutes to bill a unit of service. The
   tasks shall include updating medical records and verification that the
   documentation was delivered to the primary care physician, DDS Case Manager
   and the place of residence of the person receiving services.

   935.11. The reimbursement rate for ongoing occupational therapy services shall
   be sixty-five dollars ($65.00) per hour for the period specified in the
   occupational therapy report and approved by the physician. The billable unit
   of service for occupational therapy services shall be fifteen (15) minutes. A
   provider shall provide at least eight (8) minutes of service in a span of
   fifteen (15) continuous minutes to bill a unit of service.

   935.12. Each provider shall offer the Hepatitis B vaccination to each person
   providing services pursuant to these rules and maintain a copy of the
   acceptance or declination of the vaccine.

   935.99. DEFINITIONS
   
   
   
   When used in this section, the following terms and phrases shall have the
   meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Clinical Record &#8211; A comprehensive compilation of medical and other data
   that identifies the person and justifies and describes the diagnosis and
   treatment of the person.
   
   
   
   Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) &#8211; That plan as set forth in section
   403 of the Mentally Retarded Citizens Constitutional Rights and Dignity Act of
   1978, effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-137; D.C. Official Code §
   7-1304.03).
   
   
   
   Individual Support Plan (ISP) &#8211; The successor to the individual
   habilitation plan (IHP) as defined in the 2001 Plan for Compliance and
   Conclusion of Evans v. Williams.
   
   
   
   Occupational Therapist &#8211; A person who is licensed or authorized to
   practice occupational therapy pursuant to the District of Columbia Health
   Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99;
   D.C. Official Code § 3-1201 et seq.) or licensed as an occupational therapist
   in the jurisdiction where services are provided.
   
   
   
   Occupational Therapy Assistant &#8211; A person who is authorized to practice
   as an occupational therapy assistant under the direct supervision of a
   licensed occupational therapist pursuant to the District of Columbia Health
   Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective March 25; 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99;
   D.C. Official Code § 3-1201 et seq.) or licensed or authorized to practice as
   an occupational therapy assistant in the jurisdiction where services are
   provided.
   
   
   
   Physician &#8211; A person who is authorized to practice medicine pursuant to
   the District of Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985, effective
   March 25, 1986 D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1201 et seq.) or
   licensed as a physician in the jurisdiction where services are provided.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; An individual with intellectual and developmental disabilities
   who has been determined eligible to receive services under the Home and
   Community-based Services Waiver for Persons with Mental Retardation and
   Developmental Disabilities (Waiver).
   
   
   
   Plan of Care &#8211; A written service plan that meets the requirements set
   forth in section 1904.4 of Title 29 DCMR, is signed by the person receiving
   services, and is used to prior authorize Waiver services.
   
   
   
   Private Practice &#8211; An individual whose practice is an unincorporated
   solo practice or unincorporated partnership. Private practice also includes an
   individual who is practicing therapy as an employee of an unincorporated
   practice, a professional corporation, or other incorporated therapy practice.
   For the purposes of this rule, an individual who is licensed to practice
   occupational therapy and is employed by a social services agency providing
   occupational therapy service under this rule shall be considered in private
   practice. Private practice does not include individuals when they are working
   as employees of a hospital, nursing facility, clinic, home health agency,
   rehabilitation facility or any other entity that has a Medicaid provider
   agreement which includes physical therapy in the provider&#8217;s
   reimbursement rate.
   
   
   
   Progress Note &#8211; A dated, written notation by a member of the health care
   team that summarizes facts about a person&#8217;s care and response to
   treatment during a given period of time.
   
   
   
   Provider &#8211; Any non-profit, home health agency, social service agency or
   other business entity that provides services pursuant to these rules.
   
   
   
   Waiver &#8211; Shall mean the Home and Community-based Services Waiver for
   Persons with Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities as approved by
   the Council of the District of Columbia (Council) and the U.S. Department of
   Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS),
   as may be further amended and approved by the Council and CMS.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: The authority for §§935 &#8211; 939 is D.C. Code, 2001 Ed.
   §1307.02; and 42 C.F.R. §440.40.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 3944 (June 15, 1990); as Final
   Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 1190 (February 7, 2003); as Final Rulemaking
   published at 53 DCR 102 (January 6, 2006); as Final Rulemaking published at 55
   DCR 7293 (July 4, 2008).
