                                  DC REGULATIONS

ONE TO ONE SERVICES (§ 29-979)

979.1. Effective March 8, 2003 in addition to the facility-specific per diem
   rate calculated in accordance with section 970, the Medicaid Program shall pay
   an additional amount to an ICF/MR for each resident receiving one-to-one
   services pursuant to the requirements set forth in subsections 979.1 through
   979.36.

   979.2. One-to-one services constitute an altered staffing pattern that allows
   for one person to provide services to one resident exclusively, for a
   pre-authorized length of time. Services shall be provided by a
   paraprofessional, a registered nurse or practical nurse, as appropriate.

   979.3. One-to-one services shall be provided both within an ICF/MR and outside
   the facility, including day treatment, to the extent that the services do not
   duplicate those provided by other agencies.

   979.4. The additional amount paid to an ICF/MR for one to one services is
   resident specific. If the resident moves to another facility, the additional
   amount of reimbursement attributable for one-to-one services shall be
   transferred to the new facility and discontinued from the resident&#8217;s
   former facility. If the resident dies or no longer requires one to-one
   services, payment shall be discontinued.

   979.5. The Department of Health, Medical Assistance Administration (MAA) shall
   authorize all requests for reimbursement for one-to-one services.

   979.6. One-to-one services shall be ordered by and provided under the
   direction of the individual resident&#8217;s interdisciplinary team.

   979.7. The client&#8217;s physician shall approve each request for
   professional one-to one services prior to submission to MAA.

   979.8. Interventions for managing the resident&#8217;s care shall be employed
   with sufficient safeguards and supervision to ensure that the safety, welfare,
   civil and human rights of the resident are adequately protected.

   979.9. Techniques for managing inappropriate resident behavior or excessive
   restrictive measures shall never be used for disciplinary purposes, or the
   convenience of staff, or as a substitute for an active treatment program.

   979.10. The use of clinically appropriate systematic interventions for
   managing maladaptive resident behavior, physical fragility or medical
   fragility shall be incorporated into the resident&#8217;s individual
   habilitation plan (IHP) or individual support plan (ISP).

   979.11. Services provided pursuant to standing orders or as needed programs to
   control inappropriate behavior, medical or physical fragility shall not be
   reimbursed.

   979.12. To be eligible for reimbursement for paraprofessional one-to-one
   services, the resident shall be required to have a behavior support plan and
   meet at least one of the following characteristics:
   
   
   
   a.	Exhibit elopement which places the resident at risk;
   
   
   
   b.	Exhibit behavior that poses serious bodily harm to self or others;
   
   
   
   c.	Exhibit destructive behavior that poses serious property damage, including
   fire-setting;
   
   
   
   d.	Be a sexual predator;
   
   
   
   e.	Be physically fragile or have physical needs that does not require
   professional nursing staff but requires intensive staffing; or
   
   
   
   f.	Have any other intense behavioral problem that has been deemed to require
   one-to-one supervision.

   979.13. To be eligible for reimbursement for professional one-to-one services,
   the resident shall meet at least one of the following characteristics:
   
   
   
   a.	Be at risk of cardio-pulmonary failure;
   
   
   
   b.	Require monitoring and care of circulatory functions at least once every
   hour;
   
   
   
   c.	Require constant monitoring and care of gastro-intestinal complications;
   
   
   
   d.	Require constant monitoring and care of neurological functions;
   
   
   
   e.	Require monitoring and care of skeletal functions that requires turning and
   repositioning at least once every hour as ordered by the physician;
   
   
   
   f.	Wound care as ordered by the physician four (4) or more times per day;
   
   
   
   g.	Require constant observation of urine, blood or body orifices for bleeding
   tendencies; or
   
   
   
   h.	Have any other intense medical condition that requires monitoring or care
   at least every hour or less.

   979.14. The provider shall submit to the resident&#8217;s case manager a
   written request for paraprofessional or professional one-to-one services.

   979.15. The request for paraprofessional one-to-one services shall include all
   of the following information, if applicable:
   
   
   
   a.	A concise statement that sets forth the presenting problem;
   
   
   
   b.	A behavior management plan that delineates the particular constellation of
   problems and/or disabilities that are presented by the resident. The plan
   shall be reviewed and up-dated at the time of the request. The plan also shall
   reflect goals directed toward eliminating behaviors(s) and methods to be used
   in all environments including day programming or day habilitation. The
   documentation also shall include a copy of any behavior management plan that
   was previously implemented.
   
   
   
   c.	Behavior data tracking sheet, reflecting data within thirty (30) days prior
   to the request;
   
   
   
   d.	Any incident reports involving the resident that are related to the need
   for the paraprofessional one-to-one services;
   
   
   
   e.	A copy of any court orders regarding one-to-one services;
   
   
   
   f.	A copy of any deficiency report issued by the Department of Health, Health
   Regulation Administration, which indicates that one-to-one services are
   required and are not being provided;
   
   
   
   g.	Documentation that the resident meets the requirements set forth in 979.12;
   
   
   
   h.	A copy of the most recent IHP or ISP which shall include the following
   information:
   
   
   
   1.	A statement signed by the members of the interdisciplinary team testifying
   to the fact that the interdisciplinary team has met and agreed to the need for
   one-to-one services, including the number of hours per day and the number of
   days per week that services are needed;
   
   
   
   2.	An explanation of less restrictive methods that have been attempted and
   failed;
   
   
   
   3.	The specific justification for the one-to-one services; and
   
   
   
   4.	Delineation of the specific duties and responsibilities of the staff with
   respect to this resident and the presenting problem and supports to be
   provided.
   
   
   
   i.	Job description of the person who shall provide the one-to-one services;
   and
   
   
   
   j.	Any other information deemed necessary to support the need for one-to- one
   services.

   979.16. The request for professional one-to-one services shall include all of
   the following information, if applicable:
   
   
   
   a.	A concise statement that sets forth the presenting problem;
   
   
   
   b.	Any incident report involving the resident that are related to the need for
   skilled, professional one-to-one services;
   
   
   
   c.	Most recent laboratory or diagnostic results, if applicable;
   
   
   
   d.	A current physician&#8217;s order, as required in section 979.7 which
   specifies the need for professional one-to-one services and the treatment
   regimen(s) to be provided;
   
   
   
   e.	A copy of any court orders, regarding one-to-one services;
   
   
   
   f.	A copy of any deficiency reports issued by the Department of Health, Health
   Regulation Administration, which indicates that one-to-one services are
   required and are not being provided;
   
   
   
   g.	Documentation that the client meets the requirements set forth in 979.13;
   
   
   
   h.	A copy of the most recent IHP or ISP which shall include the following
   information:
   
   
   
   1.	A statement signed by the members of the interdisciplinary team testifying
   to the fact that the interdisciplinary team has met and agreed to the need for
   one-to-one services, including the number hours per day and the number of days
   per week that services are needed;
   
   
   
   2.	The specific justification for the one-to-one services;
   
   
   
   3.	The specific treatment regimen to be provided; and
   
   
   
   4.	Delineation of the specific duties and responsibilities of the staff with
   respect to this resident and the presenting problem and supports to be
   provided.
   
   
   
   i.	Job description of the person who shall provide the services; and
   
   
   
   j.	Any other information deemed necessary to support the need for one-to-one
   services.

   979.17. The request by the provider to the resident&#8217;s case manager for
   one-to-one services shall be an indication that the ICF/MR is unable to
   adequately support the care of the section with the existing staffing
   configuration.

   979.18. Upon receipt of the request, the resident&#8217;s case manager shall
   immediately convene a conference with the provider and the interdisciplinary
   team to re-evaluate the resident and, if necessary, update the IHP or ISP.

   979.19. If the resident&#8217;s individual interdisciplinary team determines
   that the facility is unable to support the care of the client who requires
   professional one-to-one services with the existing staff configuration, they
   shall recommend professional one-to-one services as an alternative to a new
   residential placement.

   979.20. The addendum to the ISP shall reflect the interdisciplinary
   team&#8217;s determination that there is a need for one-to-one services and
   include a statement that sets forth the reason for the one-to-one services,
   and the duties and responsibilities of the person who shall provide the
   service.

   979.21. The case manager shall review the request for one-to-one services,
   including supporting documentation within two (2) business days of receipt to
   ensure that the provider has submitted all required documentation.

   979.22. Upon completion of the review required in section 979.21, the case
   manager shall submit the interdisciplinary team&#8217;s recommendation for
   services, the provider&#8217;s request and supporting documentation to MAA for
   approval.

   979.23. MAA shall review the submission from the case manager and approve or
   disapprove the request for one-to-one services within two (2) business days of
   receipt. If necessary, MAA may call the provider, case manager, or other
   interdisciplinary team member or perform an on-site visit to obtain additional
   information regarding the request for one-to-one services.

   979.24. In an emergency, the case manager shall initiate a telephone
   conference call with MAA and core interdisciplinary team members to
   re-evaluate the resident&#8217;s needs and make recommendations for one-to-one
   services. A full meeting of the interdisciplinary team shall be convened
   within five (5) business days after the telephone conference call. MAA may
   authorize one-to-one services for a period not to exceed (10) business days
   pending receipt of all required documents.

   979.25. MAA shall send written notification of the approval or denial for any
   request for services to the resident&#8217;s or resident&#8217;s
   representative, the provider, and the resident&#8217;s case manager.

   979.26. If services are denied, the resident or his or her representative may
   submit to MAA a written request for reconsideration, including additional
   documentation in support of the request.

   979.27. If the request for reconsideration is denied, MAA shall send written
   notification of the denial to the client or client&#8217;s representative, the
   provider, and the client&#8217;s case manager. The written denial letter shall
   comply with the requirements set forth in 42 CFR 431.200 et seq and include
   information informing the client or client&#8217;s representative of the right
   to appeal the determination by contacting the Department of Human Services,
   Office of Fair Hearings orally or in writing.

   979.28. Following the initiation of paraprofessional one-to-one services, the
   provider shall submit, on a quarterly basis, a status report to the case
   manager for review. Each status report shall indicate the resident&#8217;s
   current condition, changes in the resident&#8217;s condition since the last
   reporting period, interventions used and the resident&#8217;s response to the
   interventions. The provider also shall submit documentation that reflects the
   need for continued one-to-one services and efforts made by the provider to
   eliminate the need for one-to-one services. Documentation may include progress
   reports from the resident&#8217;s monitoring psychologist or other clinical
   staff.

   979.29. Following the initiation of professional one-to-one services, the
   provider shall submit, on a monthly basis, a status report to the case manager
   for review. Each status report shall indicate the resident&#8217;s current
   condition, changes in the resident&#8217;s condition since the last reporting
   period, interventions used and the resident&#8217;s response to the
   interventions. The provider also shall submit documentation that reflects the
   need for continued one-to-one services and discussions regarding the
   appropriateness of alternatives to one-to-one services, such as temporary
   hospitalization or nursing facility placement.

   979.30. Each provider shall submit to the case manager, on a monthly basis, a
   summary of the total number of hours one-to-one services provided by each
   staff person. The summary shall be signed and dated by the provider.

   979.31. Following the initiation of services, the case manager shall report to
   MAA, at least once every six months, the appropriateness and need for
   continued one-to-one services. The case manager shall also report any efforts
   that were undertaken to eliminate the need for services.

   979.32. The case manager shall immediately notify MAA when services are no
   longer needed or if the provider fails to submit the required status report or
   monthly summary of services provided.

   979.33. MAA may terminate payment for one-to-one services if the provider
   fails to submit the status report as required pursuant to sections 979.28 and
   979.29.

   979.34. The reimbursement rate for paraprofessional one-to-one services shall
   be $11.50 per hour, which includes 15% benefits.

   979.35. The reimbursement rate for professional one-to-one services shall be
   as follows:
   
   
   
   Registered Nurse- $22.00 per hour; or
   
   
   
   Practical Nurse- $20.00 per hour.

   979.36. Each ICF/MR that has previously received an adjustment to the
   facility-specific rate for one-to-one services, prior to the effective date of
   these rules, shall comply with the requirements set forth in these rules. The
   facility-specific rate shall be adjusted in conformity with these rules.

   979.99. DEFINITIONS
   
   
   
   For the purposes of this section, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Case Manager &#8211; Shall have the same meaning as set forth in section 940
   of Chapter 9 of Title 29 DCMR.
   
   
   
   Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) -That plan as set forth in section 403 of
   the Mentally Retarded Citizens Constitutional Rights and Dignity Act of 1978,
   effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-137; D.C. Official Code § 7-1304.03).
   
   Individual Support Plan (ISP) -The successor to the Individual Habilitation
   Plan (IHP) as defined in the court-approved Joy Evans Exit Plan.
   
   
   
   Interdisciplinary Team &#8211; A group of persons with special training and
   experience In the diagnosis and habilitation of mentally retarded persons
   which has the responsibility of performing a comprehensive evaluation of each
   resident and participating in the development, implementation and monitoring
   of the resident&#8217;s individual habilitation plan. The &#8220;core
   team&#8221; shall include the resident and resident&#8217;s representative,
   the case manager, and relevant clinical staff.
   
   
   
   Medical Fragility &#8211; A weakened medical state in which an individual is
   susceptible to disruptions in one&#8217;s physical, emotional, and functional
   wellbeing.
   
   
   
   Paraprofessional One-to-One Services &#8211; Services provided by persons such
   as nurse&#8217;s aides, counselors, and those qualified to provide personal
   care attendant services.
   
   
   
   Practical Nurse &#8211; A person who is licensed or authorized to provide
   practical nursing pursuant to the District of Columbia Health Occupations
   Revision Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official
   Code §§ 3-1201 et seq.) or licensed as a practical nurse in the jurisdiction
   where services are provided.
   
   
   
   Professional One-to-One Services &#8211; Services provided by a registered
   nurse or practical nurse.
   
   
   
   Registered Nurse &#8211; A person who is licensed or authorized to provide
   registered nursing pursuant to the District of Columbia Health Occupations
   Revision Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official
   Code §§ 3-1201 et seq.) or licensed as a registered nurse in the
   jurisdiction where services are provided.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 4735(June 13, 2003).
