                                  DC REGULATIONS

RESIDENTIAL HABILITATION SERVICES (ยง 29-946)

946.1. Residential habilitation services shall be reimbursed by the District
   of Columbia Medicaid Program for each participant in the Home and
   Community-based Services Waiver for Persons with Mental Retardation and
   Developmental Disabilities (Waiver) subject to the requirements set forth in
   this section.

   946.2. In order to qualify for reimbursement under this section, residential
   habilitation services shall be provided in a Group Home for Mentally Retarded
   Persons (GHMRP) or similarly licensed group home in other states. Each GHMRP
   located in the District of Columbia shall be licensed pursuant to the Health
   Care and Community Residence Facility, Hospice and Home Care Licensure Act of
   1983, effective February 24, 1984 (D.C. Law 5-48; D.C. Official Code ยง 44-501
   et seq.), no later than sixty (60) days after approval as a Medicaid provider
   and comply with the requirements set forth in Chapter 35 of Title 22 of the
   District of Columbia Municipal Regulations DCMR), except as set forth in these
   rules. In order to qualify for reimbursement under this section, residential
   habilitation services shall be delivered in a GHMRP or group home licensed or
   certified in other states that can serve four (4) to six (6) persons.

   946.3. Each group home located out-of-state shall be licensed or certified in
   accordance with the host state&#8217;s laws and regulations and be consistent
   with the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement between the District
   of Columbia and the host state. Each out-of-state provider shall comply with
   the following additional requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Remain in good standing in the jurisdiction where the program is located;
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit a copy of the annual certification or survey performed by the host
   state and provider&#8217;s corrective action plan, if applicable, to the
   Department on Disability Services (DDS); and
   
   
   
   (c)	Allow authorized agents of the District of Columbia government, federal
   government, and governmental officials of the host state full access to all
   sites and records for audits and other reviews.

   946.4. Residential habilitation services shall only be available to a person
   with a demonstrated need for continuous training, assistance, and supervision,
   and shall be authorized and provided in accordance with the person&#8217;s
   current Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) or Individual Support Plan (ISP)
   and Plan of Care.

   946.5. Each provider of residential habilitation services shall assist persons
   in the acquisition, retention, and improvement of skills related to activities
   of daily living, such as personal grooming, household chores, eating and food
   preparation, and other social adaptive skills necessary to enable the person
   to reside in the community To accomplish these goals, the provider shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Use observation, conversation, and other interactions as necessary to
   develop a functional analysis of the person&#8217;s capabilities within the
   first month of the person&#8217;s residency;
   
   
   
   (b)	Prepare a support plan with measurable outcomes using the functional
   analysis, the IHP or ISP and Plan of Care, and other information available to
   develop and maintain as appropriate the skills necessary to enable the person
   to reside in the community while maintaining their health and safety; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Report quarterly to the person, family, guardian, and DDS Case Manager the
   outcomes of the programming and support provided to help the person to achieve
   the identified outcomes.

   946.6. Each provider of residential habilitation services shall ensure that
   each person receives hands-on support, habilitation, and other supports, when
   appropriate, which shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas:
   
   
   
   (a)	Eating and drinking;
   
   
   
   (b)	Toileting;
   
   
   
   (c)	Personal hygiene;
   
   
   
   (d)	Dressing;
   
   
   
   (e)	Grooming;
   
   
   
   (f)	Monitoring health and physical condition and assistance with medication or
   other medical needs;
   
   
   
   (g)	Communications;
   
   
   
   (h)	Interpersonal and social skills;
   
   
   
   (i)	Home management;
   
   
   
   (j)	Mobility;
   
   
   
   (k)	Time management;
   
   
   
   (l)	Financial management;
   
   
   
   (m)	Academic and pre-academic skills;
   
   
   
   (n)	Motor and perceptual skills;
   
   
   
   (o)	Problem-solving and decision-making;
   
   
   
   (p)	Human sexuality;
   
   
   
   (q)	Aesthetic appreciation; and
   
   
   
   (r)	Opportunity for social, recreational, and religious activities utilizing
   community resources.

   946.7. Each provider of residential habilitation services shall ensure that
   each resident receives the professional services required to meet his or her
   goals as identified in the person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care.
   Professional services may include, but are not limited to, the following
   disciplines or services:
   
   
   
   (a)	Medicine;
   
   
   
   (b)	Dentistry;
   
   
   
   (c)	Education;
   
   
   
   (d)	Nutrition;
   
   
   
   (e)	Nursing;
   
   
   
   (f)	Occupational therapy;
   
   
   
   (g)	Physical therapy;
   
   
   
   (h)	Psychology;
   
   
   
   (i)	Social work;
   
   
   
   (j)	Speech, hearing and language therapy; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Recreation.

   946.8. Each provider of residential habilitation services shall ensure the
   provision of transportation services to enable persons to gain access to
   Waiver and other community services and activities. The provider shall comply
   with the requirements governing transportation services set forth in section
   1903 of Title 29 DCMR if providing transportation services.

   946.9. The minimum daily ratio of on-duty direct care staff to persons present
   in each GHMRP that serves persons who are not determined by DDS to have higher
   acuity shall not be less than the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	1:6 during the waking hours of the day, approximately 6:00 a.m. to 2:00
   p.m., when persons remain in the GHMRP during the day;
   
   
   
   (b)	1:4 during the period of approximately 2:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.; and
   
   
   
   (c)	1:6 during the sleeping hours of the night, approximately 10:00 p.m. to
   6:00 a.m.

   946.10. Each provider of residential habilitation services shall be a social
   services agency as described in section 1903.1 of Title 29 DCMR. In addition,
   the provider shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be a member of the resident&#8217;s interdisciplinary team;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a current District of Columbia Medicaid Provider Agreement that
   authorizes the provider to bill for residential habilitation Services under
   the Waiver;
   
   
   
   (c)	Maintain a copy of the most recent IHP or ISP and Plan of Care that has
   been approved by DDS for each person;
   
   
   
   (d)	Have a current Human Care Agreement with DDS for the provision of
   residential services;
   
   
   
   (e)	Ensure that all residential habilitation services staff are qualified and
   properly supervised to include having a plan to provide staff interpreters for
   non-English speaking persons;
   
   
   
   (f)	Ensure that the service provided is consistent with the person&#8217;s IHP
   or ISP and Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   (g)	Offer the Hepatitis B vaccination to each person providing services
   pursuant to these rules;
   
   
   
   (h)	Provide staff training in infection control procedures consistent with the
   standards established by the Federal Centers for Disease Control and
   Prevention (CDC);
   
   
   
   (i)	Ensure compliance with DDS policies governing reporting of unusual
   incidents, human rights, behavior management, and protection of person&#8217;s
   funds;
   
   
   
   (j)	Ensure that each residence is accessible to public transportation and
   emergency vehicles;
   
   
   
   (k)	Ensure that each group home is barrier-free if needed by the person;
   
   
   
   (l)	Maintain a written staffing plan;
   
   
   
   (m)	Provide a written staffing schedule for each site where services are
   provided;
   
   
   
   (n)	Comply with the requirements of the Health-Care Facility Unlicensed
   Personnel Criminal Background Check Act of 1998, effective April 20, 1999
   (D.C. Law 12-238; D.C. Official Code ยง 44-551 et seq.);
   
   
   
   (o)	Ensure that each staff member has been screened for communicable disease,
   in accordance with the guidelines issued by the CDC;
   
   
   
   (p)	Meet the DDS Basic Assurances set forth in the Human Care Agreement;
   
   
   
   (q)	Provide DDS and the Medical Assistance Administration, Department of
   Health, with at least ninety (90) days advance written notice of intent to
   terminate residential habilitation services; and
   
   
   
   (r)	Provide persons receiving residential habilitation services with at least
   thirty (30) days advance written notice prior to the effective date of the
   termination of services in the form prescribed by DDS and be responsible for
   notifying DDS of those persons who are undergoing treatment of an acute
   condition.

   946.11. Each person providing residential habilitation services for a provider
   under section 946.10 shall meet all of the requirements in Chapter 19 to Title
   29 DCMR, section 1911.

   946.12. Each provider shall cooperate with DDS case management in providing
   access and information as requested for case management visits and reviews.

   946.13. Each provider of residential habilitation services shall review the
   person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care goals, objectives, and activities
   at least quarterly and more often, as necessary. The provider shall propose
   modifications to the IHP or ISP and Plan of Care, as appropriate. The results
   of these reviews shall be submitted to the case manager within thirty (30)
   days of the end of each quarter. Each provider shall participate in IHP or ISP
   and Plan of Care development so that community integration goals are clearly
   defined. Each provider shall also assist in the coordination of all services
   that a person may receive.

   946.14. Each provider of residential habilitation services shall maintain
   progress notes on a weekly basis, or more frequently if indicated, which
   include: progress in meeting each goal in the ISP; any unusual health or
   behavioral events or change in status; a recording of visitors and the
   person&#8217;s participation in the visit; a listing of all community
   activities attended by the person and the response to those activities; and
   any matter requiring follow-up on the part of the service provider or DDS.
   Each provider shall also maintain participant attendance rosters on a daily
   basis and current financial records of expenditures of public and private
   funds for each person.

   946.15. Each provider of residential habilitation services shall maintain all
   records and reports for at least six (6) years after the person&#8217;s date
   of discharge.

   946.16. Residential habilitation services shall not be reimbursed when
   provided by a member of the person&#8217;s family.

   946.17. Reimbursement for residential habilitation services shall not include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Cost of room and board;
   
   
   
   (b)	Cost of facility maintenance, upkeep and improvement; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Activities for which payment is made by a source other than Medicaid.

   946.18. The reimbursement rate for residential habilitation services is
   calculated based on the staff being awake while on duty and shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	All supervision of direct support staff;
   
   
   
   (b)	All nursing provided in the residence for medication administration,
   physician ordered protocols and procedures, charting, other supports as per
   physician&#8217;s orders, and maintenance of Health Management Care Plan;
   
   
   
   (c)	Transportation to day programs, employment, professional appointments,
   community outings and events;
   
   
   
   (d)	Programmatic supplies; and
   
   
   
   (e)	General and administrative fees for Waiver services.
   
   
   
   The billable unit of service for residential habilitation services shall be
   fifteen (15) minutes. A provider shall provide at least eight (8) minutes of
   service in a span of fifteen (15) continuous minutes to be able to bill a unit
   of service.

   946.19. The reimbursement rate for residential habilitation services for a
   GHMRP with four (4) individuals shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Basic Support Level 1 daily rate shall be two hundred seventeen
   dollars ($217.00) for a direct care staff support ratio of 1:4 for all awake
   and overnight hours billable in quarter hour units of two dollars and
   twenty-six cents ($2.26) per unit;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Moderate Support Level 2 daily rate shall be three hundred forty-four
   dollars ($344.00) for a direct care staff support ratio of 1:4 for awake
   overnight and 2:4 during all awake hours when individuals are in the home and
   adjusted for increased absenteeism billable in quarter hour units of three
   dollars and fifty-eight cents ($3.58) per unit;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Enhanced Moderate Support Level 3 daily rate shall be four hundred
   eighty-four dollars ($484.00) for a direct care staff support ratio of 2:4
   staff awake overnight and 2:4 during all awake hours when individuals are in
   the home and adjusted for increased absenteeism billable in quarter hour units
   of five dollars and four cents ($5.04) per unit;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Intensive Support daily rate shall be five hundred sixty-one dollars
   ($561.00) for a direct care staff support ratio of 2:4 staff awake overnight
   and 3:4 during all awake hours when individuals are in the home and adjusted
   for increased absenteeism billable in quarter hour units of five dollars and
   eighty-five cents ($5.84) per unit; and
   
   
   
   (e)	There shall be a specialized service rate determined through a negotiated
   request for proposals process when determined necessary by DDS to serve
   individuals with extraordinary medical and/or behavioral health needs.

   946.20. The reimbursement rate for residential habilitation services for a
   GHMRP with five (5) to six (6) individuals shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Basic Support Level 1 daily rate shall be two hundred seventy-two
   dollars ($272.00) for a direct care staff support ratio of 1:5/6 staff awake
   overnight and 2:5/6 during all awake hours when individuals are in the home
   billable in quarter hour units of two dollars and eighty- three cents ($2.83)
   per unit;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Moderate Support Level 2 daily rate shall be three hundred sixty-
   seven dollars ($367.00) for a direct care staff support ratio of 2:5/6 staff
   awake overnight and 2:5/6 during all awake hours when individuals are in the
   home and adjusted for increased absenteeism billable in quarter hour units of
   three dollars and eighty-two cents ($3.82) per unit;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Enhanced Moderate Support Level 3 daily rate shall be four hundred
   forty-four dollars ($444.00) for a staff support ratio of 2:5/6 staff awake
   overnight and 3:5/6 during all awake hours when individuals are in the home
   and adjusted for increased absenteeism billable in quarter hour units of four
   dollars and sixty-three cents ($4.63) per unit;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Intensive Support daily rate shall be five hundred fifty-five dollars
   ($551.00) for increased direct care staff support for sleep hours to 2:5/6 for
   staff awake overnight support and 4:5/6 during all awake hours when
   individuals are in the home and adjusted for increased absenteeism billable in
   quarter hour units of five dollars and seventy four cents ($5.74) per unit;
   and
   
   
   
   (e)	There shall be a specialized service rate determined through a negotiated
   request for proposals process when determined necessary by DDS to serve
   individuals with extraordinary medical and/or behavioral health needs.

   946.21. Acuity evaluation to set support levels shall be determined by a
   committee appointed by the Director of DDS that shall review current staffing
   levels, available health and behavioral records, and any available
   standardized acuity instrument results to determine if a person has a health
   or behavioral acuity that requires increased supports. Individuals may be
   assessed at a support level that is consistent with their current staffing
   level if other acuity indicators are not in place.

   946.22. Residential habilitation services shall not be billed concurrently
   with the following Waiver services:
   
   
   
   (a)	Environmental accessibility adaptation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Vehicle modifications;
   
   
   
   (c)	Supported living;
   
   
   
   (d)	Respite;
   
   
   
   (e)	Host home;
   
   
   
   (f)	Live-in caregiver;
   
   
   
   (g)	In-home supports;
   
   
   
   (h)	Personal Emergency Response System; or
   
   
   
   (i)	Transportation.

   946.23. Residential habilitation services shall not be billed when the person
   is hospitalized, on vacation, or for any other period in which the person is
   not residing at the GHMRP. The reimbursement rates assume a ninety-three (93)
   percent annual occupancy, and unanticipated absence from day/vocational
   services or employment due to illness, and planned absence for holidays. Daily
   activities such as day treatment, day habilitation services, prevocational
   services, supported employment services, or employment are typically scheduled
   for five (5) hours per day five (5) days per week, and scheduling day
   activities in excess of five (5) hours per day five (5) days per week shall
   result in an hour-for-hour decrease in the residential habilitation services
   reimbursement. Reimbursement shall be calculated based on the time the person
   is scheduled to be in his or her place of residence, except the provider may
   include the time that the individual is being transported by the provider to
   day programs, employment, professional appointments, community outings and
   events.

   946.24. Direct care staff shall be dressed, alert, and maintain support logs
   during the entire shift of awake hours. The provider shall maintain a log of
   scheduled activities that specifies when the person is scheduled to be in his
   or her home on a daily basis.

   946.99. DEFINITIONS
   
   
   
   When used in this section, the following terms and phrases shall have the
   meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Awake -For purposes of staffing and determining the reimbursement rates for
   residential habilitation services, awake hours of the day with absence from
   day program, weekend, or holiday shall be approximately 6:00 a.m. to 10:00
   p.m., and for purposes of awake hours for all other days shall be
   approximately 6:00 am to 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   
   
   
   Communicable Disease &#8211; Shall have the same meaning as set forth in
   section 201 of Chapter 2 of Title 22, District of Columbia Municipal
   Regulations.
   
   
   
   Community Integration &#8211; Participation in events outside of the
   person&#8217;s place of residence that may include shopping, dining, attending
   movies, plays, and other social events. The plan from section 946.13 should
   identify community and social events appropriate for the person.
   
   
   
   Direct Care Staff &#8211; Individuals employed to work in the GHMRP who render
   the day-to-day, personal assistance that persons require in order to meet the
   goals of his or her IHP or ISP and Plan of Care.
   
   
   
   Family -Any person who is related to the person receiving services by blood,
   marriage, or adoption.
   
   
   
   Group Home for Mentally Retarded Persons (GHMRP) &#8211; A community residence
   facility, other than an intermediate care facility for persons with mental
   retardation, that provides a homelike environment for at least four (4) but no
   more than six (6) related or unrelated persons with intellectual disabilities
   who require specialized living arrangements and maintains necessary staff,
   programs, support services, and equipment for their care and habilitation.
   
   
   
   Health Management Care Plan &#8211; A written document designed to evaluate an
   individual&#8217;s health care status and to provide recommendations regarding
   the treatment and amelioration of health care issues by identifying types of
   risk, interventions to manage identified risks, individuals responsible for
   carrying out interventions, and individuals responsible for providing
   evaluation of outcomes and timeframes.
   
   
   
   Individual -individual participant enrolled in the Waiver receiving services.
   
   
   
   Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) &#8211; That plan as set forth in section
   403 of the Mentally Retarded Citizens Constitutional Rights and Dignity Act of
   1978, effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-137; D.C. Official Code ยง
   7-1304.03).
   
   
   
   Individual Support Plan (ISP) &#8211; The successor to the individual
   habilitation plan (IHP) as defined in the 2001 Plan for Compliance and
   Conclusion of Evans v. Williams.
   
   
   
   Interdisciplinary Team &#8211; A group of persons with special training and
   experience in the diagnosis and habilitation of mentally retarded persons who
   have the responsibility of performing a comprehensive evaluation of the person
   while participating in the development, implementation, and monitoring of the
   person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care.
   
   
   
   Overnight &#8211; For purposes of staffing and determining the reimbursement
   rates for residential habilitation services, the overnight period shall be
   approximately from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
   
   
   
   Person/Participant &#8211; An individual with intellectual and developmental
   disabilities who has been determined eligible to receive services under the
   Waiver.
   
   
   
   Plan of Care &#8211; A written service plan that meets the requirements set
   forth in section 1904.4 of Title 29 DCMR, is signed by the person receiving
   services, and is used to prior authorize Waiver services.
   
   
   
   Progress Notes &#8211; Notes that observe (1) progress in meeting each goal in
   the IHP or ISP and Plan of Care, which is the responsibility of the residence;
   (2) the list of community activities for the week and the participant&#8217;s
   response to each activity; (3) any unusual health events; (4) any visitors the
   participant received; and (5) anything requiring follow-up or action.
   
   
   
   Provider &#8211; Any non-profit, home health agency, social service agency or
   other business entity that provides services pursuant to these rules.
   
   
   
   Waiver &#8211; The Home and Community-based Services Waiver for Persons with
   Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities as approved by the Council
   of the District of Columbia (Council) and the U.S. Department of Health and
   Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), as may be
   further amended and approved by the Council and CMS.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 9699 (October 15, 2004); as
   Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 4394 (May 11, 2007); as Final Rulemaking
   published at 55 DCR 6856 (June 20, 2008).
