                                  DC REGULATIONS

ALLOWABLE COSTS (§ 29-972)

972.1. The standards established in this section are to provide guidance in
   determining whether certain cost items will be recognized as allowable base
   year costs. In the absence of specific instructions or guidelines, each
   facility shall follow the principles and instructions set forth in the
   Medicare Provider’s Reimbursement Manual.

   972.2. Bed Occupancy Allowance &#8211; For purposes of calculating the base
   year cost, each facility shall maintain at a minimum an average annual
   occupancy rate of 85%. For each facility with less than an 85% occupancy rate,
   the bed occupancy allowance shall be computed using an 85% factor instead of
   the lower, actual percentage of occupancy. A reserved bed paid under Medical
   Assistance shall be counted as an occupied bed. The occupancy level adjustment
   is applicable to fixed costs, such as depreciation, rent, interest, insurance
   and taxes. The occupancy level adjustment does not apply to variable costs
   such as staffing and food, since these costs decrease as the occupancy level
   decreases.

   972.3. General Administrative Salaries &#8211; Salaries of the facility’s
   administrator, comptroller, purchasing agent, personnel director and other
   persons performing general supervision or managements duties shall be included
   for consideration as allowable costs. If the owners of a facility perform
   management duties on a full or part-time basis, their salary may be included
   to the extent their time is documented. Compensation to an owner includes
   salary paid on a current or deferred basis.

   972.4. Nursing Care Allowance &#8211; The minimum staffing standards for
   classes of nursing personnel shall comply with the requirements as specified
   in 42 C.F.R. §§442 and 483, D.C. Law 5-48, and Chapter 35 of Title 22 of the
   District of Columbia Municipal Regulations.

   972.5. General Management and Consulting Fees &#8211; These items shall be
   included in the costs of general administration. These costs will be allowed
   and evaluated on the basis of reasonable and customary fees for such services.

   972.6. Volunteer Services and Donated Services &#8211; Volunteer or religious
   organizations may donate the services of individuals to serve on a regularly
   scheduled basis in positions customarily held by full time employees to
   provide normal patient care or assist in the operation of the facility. Actual
   costs to the facility for maintaining or utilizing the services of such
   individuals will be considered as an allowable cost. The actual costs for
   these services shall be supported by documented expenditures for payments made
   for maintaining such individuals.

   972.7. Physical Therapy and Rehabilitative Services &#8211; The cost of
   physical therapy and rehabilitative maintenance services including
   occupational therapy and speech therapy provided by persons employed on an
   hourly or salary basis under contract with the facility will be considered as
   an allowable cost when such treatment is ordered by a physician. However,
   these costs shall not include such services and payments covered by Medicare
   Part B or any payments on a fee-for-service basis.

   972.8. Physician Services &#8211; The cost of physician services shall be
   allowed if required for maintaining the quality of medical services. Examples
   include the medical director and patient medical services provided by staff
   physicians. Payment for independent and group practice physician fees for
   services provide. to Medicaid patients, which are reimbursed separately from
   payments made to ICFs/MR, shall be excluded

   972.9. Drug Services &#8211; All drugs furnished by a facility shall be based
   on a physician’s written order or prescription; administered judiciously;
   and limited to the medical necessity of the patient. All drugs administered to
   a patient shall be recorded timely on the patient’s chart. A facility shall
   not be reimbursed for prescription drugs dispensed to Medicaid patients which
   are filled by a pharmacy at the request of a patient. A facility shall be
   reimbursed for drugs ordered or refilled from a pharmacy for a Medicaid
   patient and administered to another patient or drugs purchased and
   administered after discharge or death of a patient. Medicaid patients in
   ICFs/MR shall receive routine and emergency drug prescriptions through their
   outpatient drug benefits. Drugs which are not covered by the outpatient drug
   benefit which would otherwise be allowable are included in the inpatient per
   diem rate.

   972.10. Utilization and Medical Review and Program Audits &#8211; All services
   mandated by federal and District rules governing utilization reviews, medical
   reviews and program audits may be included under “Utilization Review” as a
   separate item for purposes of reimbursement.

   972.11. Reimbursement of Capital-Related Costs Resulting from a Change in
   Ownership &#8211; For purposes of establishing an appropriate allowance for
   depreciation, interest on capital indebtedness, and return on equity capital
   for an asset obtained by during a change of ownership, the valuation of the
   asset after such change of ownership shall be the lesser of the allowable
   acquisition cost of the asset to the owner of record on July 18, 1984, or the
   acquisition cost of the asset to the new owner.

   972.12. Depreciation on capital assets, including assets for normal, standby
   or emergency use is an allowable cost subject to the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Only the straightline method of depreciation shall be used. The asset cost
   shall be reduced by any salvage value. The useful life may be shorter than the
   physical life depending upon the usefulness of the asset to the provider.
   Facilities shall follow the guidelines on useful life published by the
   Internal Revenue Service or the booklet entitled “Estimated Useful Lives of
   the Depreciable Hospital Assets” published by the American Hospital
   Association.
   
   
   
   (b)	Depreciation expense for the year of acquisition and the year of disposal
   shall be computed by using either the half-year method or the actual time
   method.
   
   
   
   (c)	The method and procedure for computing depreciation shall be applied on a
   consistent basis.
   
   
   
   (d)	The assets shall be recorded at cost; however donated assets shall be
   recorded at fair market value at the time received based on the lesser of at
   least two bonafide appraisals. Cost during the construction of an asset, such
   as architectural consulting and legal fees, interest and fundraising expenses
   shall be capitalized as a part of the cost of the asset. When an asset is
   acquired by a trade-in, the cost of the new asset shall be the sum of the book
   value of the old asset and any cash paid or issuance of debt to acquire the
   asset.
   
   
   
   (e)	Facilities that previously did not maintain fixed asset records and did
   not record depreciation in prior years shall be entitled to any straight-line
   depreciation of the remaining useful life of the asset. The depreciation shall
   be based on the cost of the asset or the fair market value of the donated
   asset at the time of donation. No depreciation shall be taken on an asset that
   would have been fully depreciated if it had been properly recorded at the time
   of acquisition.
   
   
   
   (f)	Leasehold improvements shall be depreciated over the lesser of the
   asset’s useful life or the remaining life of the lease.
   
   
   
   (g)	Gains and losses realized from the disposal of depreciable assets, not to
   exceed 10% of the total allowable depreciation for the year shall be included
   as an allowable cost.
   
   
   
   (h)	The cost basis for depreciable assets of a facility purchased as an
   ongoing operation shall be the lesser of the purchase price or the fair market
   value at the time of the sale and shall be reduced by any straight line
   depreciation taken by the prior owner. The fair market value is the lesser
   value obtained from at least two bona fide appraisals at the time of the sale.
   The sale must be an arm’s-length transaction consummated in the open market
   between non-related parties in a normal buyer-seller relationship.
   
   
   
   (i)	Reasonable costs of depreciation shall be recognized for the construction
   and renovation of a building to comply with federal and District statutes and
   rules for ICFs/MR serving Medicaid patients.
   
   
   
   (j)	Where purchase of a facility or improvements thereto are financed by tax
   exempt bonds, the acquired property, plant or equipment shall be capitalized
   and depreciated over the life of the asset. The installment payment shall not
   be included as an allowable cost. The amortization of interest in accordance
   with the terms of the bond issue shall be included as an allowable cost. Where
   the principal amount of the bond issue was expended in whole or in part on
   capital assets which are ineligible for depreciation, the includable
   depreciation shall be proportionately reduced.
   
   
   
   (k)	Funding is required for depreciation allowed for replacement of assets
   obtained through federal or District grant funds such as legacy foundation
   grants or Hill Burton grants. Funding of other depreciation is recommended in
   order that funds are available for future replacement of assets by the
   facility.

   972.13. The fixed asset records shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	The depreciation method;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the asset and date acquired;
   
   
   
   (c)	Cost;
   
   
   
   (d)	Salvage value;
   
   
   
   (e)	Depreciable cost;
   
   
   
   (f)	Estimated useful life;
   
   
   
   (g)	Depreciation for the year; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Accumulated depreciation.

   972.14. Interest shall be allowed subject to the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Interest on both current and capital indebtedness shall be allowed;
   
   
   
   (b)	Interest incurred on a loan to satisfy a financial need of the facility
   shall be allowed. Interest incurred on a loan which results in excess funds or
   for purposes of investing shall not be allowed;
   
   
   
   (c)	Interest incurred on mortgages on the property and equipment of the
   facility shall be allowed. The total value of the mortgages on which the
   interest is computed shall not exceed the lesser of at least two independent
   appraisals of the mortgaged property and equipment;
   
   
   
   (d)	Interest incurred on a loan made for a purpose reasonably related to
   patient care shall be allowed;
   
   
   
   (e)	Interest expense reduced by investment income shall be allowed, except
   when the investment income is derived from gifts or grants which are
   restricted by the donor and accounted for separately from other funds;
   
   
   
   (f)	Income from funded depreciation or from the facility’s qualified pension
   plan shall not be used to reduce interest expense;
   
   
   
   (g)	Interest incurred at a rate not to exceed what a prudent borrower would
   have to pay in the market existing at the time the loan was made shall be
   allowed; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Interest shall be allowed if paid on loans from the facility’s donor
   restricted funds, the funded depreciation account or the facility’s
   qualified pension fund.

   972.15. Bad debts shall not be recognized as an allowable cost.

   972.16. Costs pertaining to raising funds for operating expenses and cash flow
   shall be recognized as an allowable expense up to 10% of the amount raised.

   972.17. A related organization can furnish services and supplies to a facility
   under the prudent buyer concept, provided the costs of such services and
   supplies are consistent with costs of such items furnished by independent
   third party providers in the same geographic area.

   972.18. Reasonable rental expense shall be an allowable cost for leasing of a
   facility from a non-related party if it is an arm’s length transaction.

   972.19. The purchase or rental by a facility of any property, plant,
   equipment, services, and supplies shall not exceed the cost that a prudent
   buyer would pay in the open market to obtain these items.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 2333, 2340 (April 17, 1998).
