                                  DC REGULATIONS

NUTRITION EVALUATION AND CONSULTATION SERVICES (§ 29-930)

930.1. Nutrition evaluation and consultation services shall be reimbursed by
   the District of Columbia Medicaid Program for each participant with mental
   retardation and developmental disabilities in the Home and Community-based
   Services Waiver for Persons with Mental Retardation and Developmental
   Disabilities (Waiver) subject to the requirements set forth in this section.

   930.2. To be eligible for reimbursement, nutrition evaluation and consultation
   services shall be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ordered by a physician if the individual has any history of weight that is
   significantly above or below recommended body weight, a history of
   gastrointestinal disorders, diabetes, swallowing disorders, or other medical
   conditions that can be a threat to health if nutrition is poorly managed;
   
   
   
   (b)	Recommended by the interdisciplinary team if the issues are not medical in
   nature;
   
   
   
   (c)	Reasonable and necessary to the treatment of the person&#8217;s illness,
   injury, or long term disability or for the restoration or maintenance of
   function affected by the injury, illness or long term disability; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Included in the person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care.

   930.3. Nutrition evaluation and consultation services may be used to address:
   
   
   
   (a)	Evidence of weight gain or loss that creates health risk;
   
   
   
   (b)	The need for a therapeutic diet;
   
   
   
   (c)	The need for a diet with altered texture due to oral-motor problems;
   
   
   
   (d)	The need for a diet related to allergies or other food intolerances or
   drug-nutrient interactions;
   
   
   
   (e)	The need for counseling for the person and staff on the specifics of the
   needed diet plan;
   
   
   
   (f)	The need for counseling on shopping, cooking, meal planning or meal
   preparation;
   
   
   
   (g)	The need for counseling on safe storage and cooking of food;
   
   
   
   (h)	The need for counseling on nutritional information about foods;
   
   
   
   (i)	The need for counseling on how to eat a healthy, balanced diet within the
   constraints of special dietary needs, etc.; and/or,
   
   
   
   (j)	The need for counseling the individual on how to develop a cycle of menus
   that incorporates his/her preferences and choices and ensures optimal
   outcomes.

   930.4. Nutrition evaluation and consultation services shall include, as
   necessary, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Comprehensive nutritional assessments;
   
   
   
   (b)	Partial nutritional evaluations to include anthropometric assessments;
   
   
   
   (c)	Biochemical, clinical dietary appraisals;
   
   
   
   (d)	Food-drug interaction potential;
   
   
   
   (e)	Health and safety environmental review of food preparation and storage
   areas;
   
   
   
   (f)	Needs assessments for adaptive eating equipment and dysphagia management;
   or
   
   
   
   (g)	Nutrition evaluation and consultation services on a wide variety of issues
   to promote improved health and increase the person&#8217;s ability to manage
   their own diet in an effective manner including menu development, shopping,
   food preparation, food storage, and food preparation procedures based on
   physician&#8217;s orders.

   930.5. Nutritional counselors, without regard to their employer of record,
   shall be selected by the person receiving services or their guardian or legal
   representative to provide services to the person receiving services, and will
   be answerable to the person receiving services. Any organization substituting
   practitioners for more than a two week period or four visits due to emergency
   or lack of availability will request a case conference with the Department on
   Disability Services (DDS) Case Manager so that the person receiving services
   can select a new practitioner.

   930.6. The nutrition evaluation and consultation services provider shall be
   responsible for providing written documentation in the form of reports,
   assessments, physician&#8217;s orders, visit notes, progress notes, and other
   pertinent documentation of the person&#8217;s progress or lack of progress,
   medical conditions, functional gains and losses, and treatment goals that
   demonstrate that the services are and continue to be reasonable and necessary.
   The documentation shall include evidence that services did not exceed the
   authorized frequency and duration. The agency or nutrition evaluation and
   consultation services provider in private practice shall maintain a copy of
   the documentation for at least six (6) years after the person&#8217;s date of
   service.

   930.7. Each person providing nutrition evaluation and consultation services
   shall meet all of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be licensed to practice dietetics or nutrition pursuant to the District of
   Columbia Health Occupations Revisions Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986
   (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1201 et seq.) or licensed to practice
   dietetics or nutrition in the jurisdiction where services are provided;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a minimum of one (1) year of experience working with persons with
   mental retardation and developmental disabilities;
   
   
   
   (c)	Have the ability to develop and implement a nutrition plan based on an
   assessment of the person&#8217;s nutritional condition and needs;
   
   
   
   (d)	Be acceptable to the consumer and be able to communicate with the
   consumer;
   
   
   
   (e)	Demonstrate annually that he or she is free from communicable disease as
   confirmed by an annual PPD skin test or documentation from a physician stating
   that the person is free from communicable disease; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Have a current District of Columbia Medicaid Provider Agreement or be
   employed by a home health agency or social services agency that has a current
   District of Columbia Medicaid Provider Agreement that authorizes the service
   provider to bill for Nutrition Evaluation and Consultation Services under the
   Waiver.

   930.8. The reimbursement rate for nutritional assessments shall be fifty-five
   dollars ($ 55.00) an hour for a full nutritional assessment of the individual,
   preparation of summary documentation and delivery of that documentation. The
   tasks shall include updating medical records and verification that the
   documentation was delivered to the primary care physician (as necessary), DDS
   Case Manager and the place of residence of the person receiving services. The
   billable unit of service for nutrition evaluation and consultation services
   shall be fifteen (15) minutes. A provider shall provide at least eight (8)
   minutes of service in a span of fifteen (15) continuous minutes to bill a unit
   of service.

   930.9. The reimbursement rate for ongoing nutrition evaluation and
   consultation services shall be fifty-five dollars ($55.00) per hour for the
   period specified in the nutritional assessment.

   930.10. Nutrition evaluation and consultation services shall be limited to one
   hundred twenty (120) hours per year unless approved for additional hours by a
   physician.

   930.99. DEFINITIONS
   
   
   
   When used in this section, the following terms and phrases shall have the
   meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Communicable Disease &#8211; Shall have the same meaning as set forth in
   section 201 of Chapter 2 of Title 22, District of Columbia Municipal
   Regulations.
   
   
   
   Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) &#8211; That plan as set forth in section
   403 of the Mentally Retarded Citizens Constitutional Rights and Dignity Act of
   1978, effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-137; D.C. Official Code §
   7-1304.03).
   
   
   
   Individual Support Plan (ISP) &#8211; The successor to the individual
   habilitation plan (IHP) as defined in the 2001 Plan for Compliance and
   Conclusion of Evans v. Williams.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; An individual with intellectual and developmental disabilities
   who has been determined eligible to receive services under the Home and
   Community-based Services Waiver for Persons with Mental Retardation and
   Developmental Disabilities (Waiver).
   
   
   
   Plan of Care &#8211; A written service plan that meets the requirements set
   forth in section 1904.4 of Title 29 DCMR, is signed by the person receiving
   services, and is used to prior authorize Waiver services.
   
   
   
   Provider &#8211; Any non-profit, home health agency, social service agency or
   other business entity that provides services pursuant to these rules.
   
   
   
   Waiver &#8211; Shall mean the Home and Community-based Services Waiver for
   Persons with Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities as approved by
   the Council of the District of Columbia (Council) and the U.S. Department of
   Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS),
   as may be further amended and approved by the Council and CMS.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: The authority for this section is D.C. Code, 2001 Ed. §1-307.02;
   Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1996, 3 D.C. Code, 2001 Ed. at 413; and Mayor’s
   Order 97-42 (February 18, 1997).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 244 (January 11, 2002); as Final
   Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 7723 (August 9, 2002); as Final Rulemaking
   published at 55 DCR 2274 (March 7, 2008).
