                                  DC REGULATIONS

COST REPORTING AND RECORD MAINTENANCE (§ 29-976)

976.1. Each participating facility shall submit an annual cost report to the
   Medicaid Program within ninety (90) days of the close of the provider’s cost
   reporting period, which shall be concurrent with its fiscal year used for all
   other financial reporting purposes.

   976.2. A delinquency notice shall be issued if the provider does not submit
   the cost report on time and has not received an extension of the deadline for
   good cause.

   976.3. If the cost report is not submitted within thirty (30) days of the date
   of the notice of delinquency, twenty percent (20%) of the facility’s regular
   monthly payment shall be withheld each month until the cost report is
   received.

   976.4. Cost reports shall be properly completed in accordance with program
   instructions and forms and accompanied by supporting documentation required by
   the Medicaid Program.

   976.5. A cost report that is not completed as required by §976.4 shall be
   considered an incomplete filing and the facility shall be so notified.

   976.6. If, within thirty (30) days of the notice of incomplete filing, the
   facility fails to file a complete cost report or documentation and no
   extension of time has been granted by the Medicaid Program, twenty (20)
   percent of the facility’s regular monthly payment shall be withheld each
   month until the filing is completed. If the cost report is not deemed complete
   within ninety (90) days of the notice of incomplete filing, one hundred (100%)
   of the facility’s regular monthly shall be withheld each month until the
   filing is complete.

   976.7. The Medicaid Program shall pay the withheld funds promptly after
   receipt of the completed cost report and documentation meeting the
   requirements of this section.

   976.8. All cost reports shall cover a twelve (12) month cost reporting period,
   which shall be the same as the facility’s fiscal year, unless the Medicaid
   Program has approved an exception.

   976.9. Each facility shall maintain sufficient financial records and
   statistical data for proper determination of allowable costs.

   976.10. Each facility’s accounting and related records including the general
   ledger and books of original entry, and all transaction documents and
   statistical data, are permanent records and shall be retained for a period of
   not less than five (5) years after the filing of a cost report or until the
   Notice of Final Program Reimbursement is received, whichever is later.

   976.11. If the records relate to a cost reporting period under audit or
   appeal, records shall be retained until the audit or appeal is completed.

   976.12. Payments made to related organizations and the reason for each payment
   to related organizations shall be disclosed by the facility in the cost
   report.

   976.13. Each facility shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Use the accrual method of accounting; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Prepare the cost report according to generally accepted accounting
   principles and all program instructions.

   976.14. For purposes of this section, the phrase “good cause” shall be
   defined as set forth in the Medicare Provider Reimbursement Manual 15.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 2333, 2348 (April 17, 1998).
