                                  DC REGULATIONS

ENVIRONMENTAL ACCESSIBILITY ADAPTATION SERVICES (ยง 29-926)

926.1. Environmental accessibility adaptation (EAA) services shall be
   reimbursed by the District of Columbia Medicaid Program for each participant
   with mental retardation and developmental disabilities in the Home and
   Community-based Waiver for Persons with Mental Retardation and Developmental
   Disabilities (Waiver) subject to the requirements set forth in this section.

   926.2. EAA services are physical adaptations to a home, required by a
   person&#8217;s Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) or Individual Support Plan
   (ISP) and Plan of Care that are necessary to ensure the health, welfare, and
   safety of a person, or that enable a person to live with greater independence
   in the home, and without which the person would require institutionalization.
   EAA services shall be intended to cover the difference between construction or
   renovation costs to make the home accessible and not to cover basic
   construction or renovation costs. For example, EAA services shall be intended
   to cover the costs associated with construction or renovation work under
   subsections 926.3(a)(b) (d) and (e), but may not cover all of the costs
   associated with construction or renovation work under subsection 926.3(c).

   926.3. EAA services may include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Installing ramps and grab-bars;
   
   
   
   (b)	Widening doorways;
   
   
   
   (c)	Modifying bathroom facilities;
   
   
   
   (d)	Installing lift systems; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Installing specialized electric and plumbing systems that are necessary to
   accommodate medical equipment and supplies.

   926.4. EAA services shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be necessary to ensure the health, welfare, or safety of the person and
   enable the person to function with greater independence; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Not be provided or reimbursed for persons eligible for the Department of
   Housing and Community Development, Handicap Accessibility Improvement Program.

   926.5. To be eligible for reimbursement, EAA services shall be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Pre-authorized by the Department on Disability Services (DDS);
   
   
   
   (b)	Installed in one of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The person&#8217;s own home;
   
   
   
   (2)	The home of the person&#8217;s family, guardian, or other primary
   caretaker who is not providing Residential Habilitation Services under the
   Waiver;
   
   
   
   (3)	A foster home in which the person resides;
   
   
   
   (4)	An apartment or other rental property in which the person resides,
   provided that the participant obtains the property owner&#8217;s written
   consent prior to making environmental accessibility adaptations; or
   
   
   
   (5)	A Supported Living residence as defined in Section 993 (Supported Living
   Services) of Title 29 DCMR.

   926.6. EAA services shall not include carpeting, roof repair, central air
   conditioning, exterior fencing, general repair or maintenance, or those
   adaptations or improvements to the home that are of general utility; make no
   direct medical or remedial benefit to the person; and shall not include
   adaptations that increase the total square footage of the home.

   926.7. A DDS case manager shall assist all eligible persons to gain access to
   the Department of Housing and Community Development, Handicap Accessibility
   Improvement Program.

   926.8. EAA services shall be authorized by the interdisciplinary team and
   provided in accordance with the person&#8217;s IHP or ISP and Plan of Care

   926.9. Each provider of EAA services shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be a non-profit organization, home health agency, social service agency,
   or other business entity;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a current District of Columbia Medicaid Provider Agreement that
   authorizes the provider to bill for EAA services under the Waiver; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Comply with applicable contractor licensing requirements in the District
   of Columbia or in the jurisdiction where EAA services are provided.

   926.10. Before approving EAA services, except for installation of
   pre-fabricated ramps for wheel-chair accessibility, an evaluation or home
   inspection shall be required from a licensed contractor or Certified Third
   Party Construction Inspector that:
   
   
   
   (a)	Establishes that the home is structurally sound;
   
   
   
   (b)	Determines whether the home can accommodate the EAA services;
   
   
   
   (c)	Identifies any construction stipulations; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Recommends how the EAA should be constructed.

   926.11. EAA services shall be provided consistent with any stipulations or
   recommendations from the licensed contractor or Certified Third Party
   Construction Inspector.

   926.12. EAA services shall be provided in accordance with the applicable
   District, state or local building codes.

   926.13. Reimbursement for EAA services shall be limited to ten thousand
   dollars ($10,000) per participant over a five-year period and shall be limited
   to modifications not to exceed two (2) residences in a five-year period.
   Exceptions to the five-year limitations in this section on EAA services may be
   approved by DDS on a case by case basis, with adequate supporting
   documentation outlined in section 926.14, based on demonstrated need, but
   shall be pre-authorized.

   926.14. Evaluation or home inspection shall be reimbursed at a rate not to
   exceed five hundred dollars ($500) per inspection, but shall only be payable
   as a separate service if the home is found structurally unsound or otherwise
   inappropriate for the EEA modification requested. Reimbursement of all other
   EAA services shall require:
   
   
   
   (a)	Written documentation of the building inspection;
   
   
   
   (b)	Development of a construction plan;
   
   
   
   (c)	Acquisition of permits;
   
   
   
   (d)	Purchase of materials; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Labor for construction, renovation, or installation services to be
   provided.

   926.99. DEFINITIONS
   
   
   
   When used in this section, the following terms and phrases shall have the
   meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Certified Third Party Construction Inspector &#8211; an inspector certified
   under the District of Columbia Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs
   Third Party Inspector program.
   
   
   
   Individual Habilitation Plan (IHP) &#8211; That plan as set forth in section
   403 of the Mentally Retarded Citizens Constitutional Rights and Dignity Act of
   1978, effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-137; D.C. Official Code ยง
   7-1304.03).
   
   
   
   Individual Support Plan (ISP) &#8211; The successor to the individual
   habilitation plan (IHP) as defined in the 2001 Plan for Compliance and
   Conclusion of Evans v. Williams.
   
   
   
   Licensed Contractor &#8211; a contractor licensed to do business in the
   District of Columbia by the District of Columbia Department of Consumer and
   Regulatory Affairs, or licensed to do business in the jurisdiction in which
   the environmental accessibility adaptation services are to be provided.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; An individual with intellectual and developmental disabilities
   who has been determined eligible to receive services under the Home and
   Community-based Services Waiver for Persons with Mental Retardation and
   Developmental Disabilities (Waiver).
   
   
   
   Plan of Care &#8211; A written service plan that meets the requirements set
   forth in section 1904.4 of Title 29 DCMR, is signed by the person receiving
   services, and is used to pre-authorize Waiver services.
   
   
   
   Waiver &#8211; Shall mean the Home and Community-based Waiver for Persons with
   Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities as approved by the Council
   of the District of Columbia (Council) and the U.S. Department of Health and
   Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), as may be
   further amended and approved by the Council and CMS.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 7434 (October 2, 1992); as
   Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 6989 (August 22, 2003); as Final
   Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 2269 (March 7, 2008).
