                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION (§ 14-2902)

2902.1. Administration of the Program shall be the responsibility of the D.C.
   Department of Housing and Community Development (“DHCD”) acting through
   its Homestead Program Administration. DHCD may procure such goods and services
   as it deems necessary for implementation of the Program, consistent with
   applicable District laws and regulations.

   2902.2. The Homestead Program Administration shall take steps as necessary to
   ensure an effective and coordinated program including, but not limited to, the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provide a Technical Training Program as needed to meet the conditions of
   the abatement agreement as specified in §§ 2913 and 2914 of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide other technical support services as appropriate and needed to
   homestead applicants and selected homesteaders; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Assure that private financial lenders are aware of program financing
   needs, including coordination with the Office of Banking and Financial
   Institutions.

   2902.3. The Office of Tax and Revenue shall be responsible for the acquisition
   of tax delinquent properties to be offered by the Program including, but not
   limited to, the following steps:
   
   
   
   (a)	Providing lists of available properties to the Administrator;
   
   
   
   (b)	Issuance of thirty (30) day notice to all lienholders, owners of record
   (or the designated representative of the record-owners); and
   
   
   
   (c)	Issuance of tax deed and compliance with attendant judicial verifications,
   notice and hearing proceedings.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final rulemaking published at 34 DCR 4947, 4948-49 (July
   31, 1987).
   
   
   
   	EDITOR’S NOTE: The District of Columbia Office of the Chief Financial
   Officer published a Notice of Public Interest at 44 DCR 2345 (April 18, 1997)
   which advised that “[t]he OFFICE OF TAX AND REVENUE will assume all of the
   duties and functions previously performed by the DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND
   REVENUE, as set forth in Commissioner’s Order 69-96, dated March 7, 1969.”
   All references to the “Department of Finance and Revenue” in the original
   text of these regulations have been replaced with the “Office of Tax and
   Revenue.”
