                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDITIONS OF MULTI-FAMILY HOMESTEAD PROGRAM (ยง 14-2914)

2914.1. Multi-family homesteads shall be subject to abatement agreements
   containing all the conditions enumerated in ยง 2913, except that the
   conditions controlling commencement and completion of rehabilitation shall be
   as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Construction of the rehabilitation of the homestead property shall begin
   no later than six (6) months from the date of conveyance; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Rehabilitation shall be complete and the property shall meet all
   applicable requirements of the D.C. Building Code (DCMR Title 12A) and the
   D.C. Housing Code (DCMR Title 14) no later than two (2) years from the date of
   conveyance.

   2914.2. A multi-family homestead project shall have at least fifteen percent
   (15%) of the proprietary interests in its dwelling units transferred to low
   income person(s), and at least fifty percent (50%) of the proprietary
   interests in its dwelling units transferred to low and moderate income
   persons.

   2914.3. For each multi-family project, the homesteaders shall be selected
   under a project marketing and selection plan approved by the Program and
   implemented by the developer. All applicants selected by the developer or the
   homestead governing body for a period of five (5) years from conveyance shall
   submit a homestead application and be approved by the Administrator.

   2914.4. The management entity for multi-family homesteads shall be responsible
   for removing participating parties who are in violation of prescribed
   conditions and for identifying new parties for participation and residency in
   the property who are acceptable to the Administrator.

   2914.5. Abatement agreements shall contain specific provisions indicating
   actions that shall be taken by DHCD for failure of the homesteader to meet
   prescribed conditions.

   2914.6. The Administrator shall require homesteaders of a multi-family
   homestead to meet additional conditions as may be necessary to ensure
   compliance with this chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 4947, 4959-60 (July
   31, 1987).
