                                  DC REGULATIONS

OFFERINGS OF HOMESTEAD PROPERTIES TO PUBLIC (ยง 14-2904)

2904.1. After selection by the Administrator of properties to be included in
   the Program, there shall be published a list of properties available for
   homesteading, along with a Notice of Request for Proposals (RFP) from persons
   who wish to be considered for participation in the Program, in the following
   publications:
   
   
   
   (a)	D.C. Register;
   
   
   
   (b)	At least two (2) major newspapers of general circulation in the city; and
   
   
   
   (c)	In newspaper(s) serving minority communities in the city.

   2904.2. The RFP for single family homesteads shall provide all information
   necessary for persons to apply for participation in the Program including, but
   not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A brief description of the Program including, but not limited to, age,
   income and residency requirements;
   
   
   
   (b)	First-time home buyer requirement;
   
   
   
   (c)	Application fee;
   
   
   
   (d)	A brief description of the properties being offered including location and
   approximate size;
   
   
   
   (e)	Conditions for acceptance in the Program;
   
   
   
   (f)	Deadline for applications;
   
   
   
   (g)	Address and telephone number of Homestead Program Administration;
   
   
   
   (h)	Instructions for obtaining applications and additional Program
   information;
   
   
   
   (i)	Assessed value of each available property: and
   
   
   
   (j)	The availability of program and other DHCD financing.

   2904.3. The RFP for multi-family homesteads shall provide, at a minimum, the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A brief description of the Program;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the property being offered including the current dwelling
   unit configurations;
   
   
   
   (c)	The availability of Program and other DHCD financing;
   
   
   
   (d)	Guidelines and requirements concerning the submission of proposals
   including the deadline and location for submission;
   
   
   
   (e)	A description of the proposal evaluation process including a listing of
   factors affecting selection of proposals; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Assessed value of property.

   2904.4. The RFPs for single family and multi-family homesteads shall indicate
   that homesteaders are expected to cover certain costs incurred in connection
   with the closing or acquisition of rehabilitation and/or permanent financing
   for the homestead.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 4947, 4951-52 (July
   31, 1987).
