                                  DC REGULATIONS

SELECTION OF PROPERTIES FOR INCLUSION IN PROGRAM (ยง 14-2903)

2903.1. Twice each year, the Office of Tax and Revenue shall provide to the
   Administrator an inventory of all tax delinquent properties that are eligible
   for inclusion in the Program.

   2903.2. The following properties shall be eligible for inclusion in the
   Program:
   
   
   
   (a)	Properties which have been in tax arrears for at least two (2) years,
   which have been bid in at a tax sale in the name of the District, and for
   which the two (2) year right of redemption from tax foreclosure on the part of
   the owner of record has expired;
   
   
   
   (b)	Properties which are in tax arrears, which have been bid in at a tax sale
   in the name of the District and for which the six (6) month right of
   redemption from tax foreclosure has expired as prescribed by amendments to
   existing D.C. law included in the Act; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Other properties as may be identified by DHCD.

   2903.3. The DHCD shall, to the extent feasible, prepare a report on each
   property in the inventory including, but not limited to, the following
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Property address;
   
   
   
   (b)	Property size and layout;
   
   
   
   (c)	The number and size of dwelling units;
   
   
   
   (d)	Tax lot identification;
   
   
   
   (e)	Occupancy status (occupied or vacant); and
   
   
   
   (f)	If occupied, household size and income of the occupants.

   2903.4. The Administrator shall review all inspection reports and additional
   criteria relating to the suitability of the property for homesteading
   including, but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Tax status as reflected in the Office of Tax and Revenue records including
   the length of time a property has been in tax arrears;
   
   
   
   (b)	Whether the property is vacant or occupied and, if occupied, whether
   occupants would be eligible to participate in the Program;
   
   
   
   (c)	Whether the required rehabilitation of the property is feasible and
   affordable to low and moderate income persons or families;
   
   
   
   (d)	Whether funds are available from Program funds or other DHCD sources with
   which to assist the rehabilitation process;
   
   
   
   (e)	Whether there is a likelihood of obtaining clear title in a timely manner;
   and
   
   
   
   (f)	Whether the property has applied for or received conditional commitment of
   funds under other DHCD operated programs.

   2903.5. The Administrator, based on the review specified in ยง 2903.4, shall
   select which properties are suitable for inclusion in the Program.

   2903.6. The Administrator shall provide a list of properties selected for
   inclusion in the Program to the Office of Tax and Revenue for completion of
   all procedures necessary for acquisition of clear title to the properties
   including, but not limited to, the steps enumerated in ยง 2902.2 of this
   chapter.

   2903.7. The Administrator may recommend to the Director that properties not
   included on the inventory of tax delinquent properties provided by the Office
   of Tax and Revenue but available from other sources be acquired for inclusion
   in the Program provided they are suitable under the criteria of ยง 2903.4 and
   further the purposes of the Program.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 4947, 4949-51 (July
   31, 1987).
