                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS (C-M) (§ 11-802)

802.1. The uses in this section shall be permitted as special exceptions in a
   C-M District if approved by the Board of Zoning Adjustment under § 3104,
   subject to the provisions of this section except that emergency shelters shall
   not be permitted in a C-M-3 District.

   802.2. Any establishment whose principal use is the administration of massages
   shall be permitted; provided:
   
   
   
   (a)	The establishment shall be compatible with other uses in the area;
   
   
   
   (b)	The use shall not be objectionable because of its effect on the character
   of the neighborhood or because of noise, traffic, or other conditions; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The establishment shall not have an adverse impact on religious,
   educational, or other institutional facilities located in the area.

   802.3. An Intermediate Materials Recycling Facility shall be permitted;
   provided:
   
   
   
   (a)	No portion of the facility, including any structure, loading docks and
   truck bays, storage, transfer equipment, truck parking, or other similar
   processing equipment and operations, shall be located within two hundred feet
   (200 ft.) of a residential property line;
   
   
   
   (b)	The use shall not have unacceptable adverse impacts on the character of
   the neighborhood due to noise, traffic, parking, odor, or other objectionable
   conditions. There shall be no truck access or queuing to the site from
   residential streets. The facility shall comply with the &#8220;Standards of
   External Effects (C-M)&#8221; in § 804 and the District of Columbia Noise
   Control Act of 1977, effective March 16, 1978, D.C. Law 2-53, as amended, and
   Standards; 20 DCMR chapters 27 &#8211; 29;
   
   
   
   (c)	The facility shall be enclosed on all sides by a fence or wall at least
   ten feet (10 ft.) high. The public view side and the side of the facility
   facing Residence Districts shall be landscaped and have an opaque screen,
   fence, or wall, not less than ten feet (10 ft.) high. The site shall be
   secured from unauthorized entry and removal of materials when attendants are
   not present;
   
   
   
   (d)	The site shall be maintained free of litter, trash, debris, and any other
   nonrecyclable materials;
   
   
   
   (e)	The facility shall provide on-site parking and queuing as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	Space shall be provided on-site to park each commercial vehicle operated
   by the facility;
   
   
   
   (2)	One employee parking space shall be provided for each commercial vehicle
   operated by the facility;
   
   
   
   (3)	If the facility serves the public, all parking and queuing space shall be
   provided on-site to accommodate projected peak demand;
   
   
   
   (4)	Additional parking, truck maneuvering, or queuing space may be required by
   the Board after considering the applicant&#8217;s analysis of the needs and
   the reports of the D.C. Department of Transportation and the Office of
   Planning;
   
   
   
   (5)	No parking, queuing, or standing of trucks will be permitted on
   residential streets;
   
   
   
   (f)	All storage of waste or recycled materials shall be in sturdy containers
   or enclosures that are fully covered, secured, and maintained in good
   condition. Storage containers for waste or recycled flammable materials shall
   be approved by the Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department. No storage
   containers outside the facility structures shall be visible above the height
   of a required fence or wall. Outside storage shall only be permitted for a
   reasonable period of time and in reasonable quantities to allow for
   separation, conversion, baling, processing, and shipment of processed and
   nonprocessed materials;
   
   
   
   (g)	If the facility is located within five hundred feet (500 ft.) of a
   Residence District, it shall not be in operation between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00
   a.m. Hours of operation shall include the arrival and departure of trucks and
   delivery and removal of materials and equipment. The facility shall be
   administered by on-site personnel during the hours the facility is open.
   Intermediate Materials Recycling Facilities shall not operate on Sunday;
   
   
   
   (h)	Intermediate Materials Recycling Facilities shall comply with all
   environmental permit requirements established by the District of Columbia
   government; and
   
   
   
   (i)	The Board may impose conditions pertaining to design, screening,
   buffering, lighting, soundproofing, signs, methods and hours of operation, or
   any matter necessary to protect adjacent and nearby property, and special
   consideration will be given to protecting residential property from excessive
   noise and traffic.

   802.4. Any establishment to be used as a solid waste handling facility shall
   be permitted only if the following requirements are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	No portion of the facility, including any structure, loading dock, truck
   bay, storage container, transfer equipment, or any other processing equipment
   or operation, shall be located within three hundred feet (300 ft.) of a
   property in a Residence District used for residential purposes or within fifty
   feet (50 ft.) of any adjacent property used as a public park or for retail,
   office, or institutional purposes;
   
   
   
   (b)	No truck access to or egress from the site shall be located within fifty
   feet (50 ft.) of any adjacent property used as a public park or for
   residential, retail, office, or institutional purposes;
   
   
   
   (c)	The facility shall be designed to have access to a railway siding or spur
   to enable the transportation by rail of solid waste out of the District of
   Columbia. Solid waste shall be shipped from a facility by rail, except that
   shipping of solid waste by truck may be permitted by the Board, if the Board
   finds that the applicant has demonstrated by substantial evidence that the use
   of rail is not practically, economically, or physically feasible;
   
   
   
   (d)	The site shall be of sufficient size so as to permit the avoidance or
   reduction of adverse impacts on the character of the neighborhood due to
   noise, traffic, parking, odors, rodents and other disease vectors, dust,
   litter, fire hazard, decomposition gases, vehicle and other pollution, or
   other hazards or objectionable conditions;
   
   
   
   (e)	The applicant shall provide credible evidence to the Board to demonstrate
   the ability of the facility and its ancillary elements to comply with all
   applicable regulations. The evidence shall include, but not be limited to, the
   following:
   
   
   
   (1)	An indication of the site and description of land uses within one fourth
   (1/4) of a mile;
   
   
   
   (2)	A site plan showing the layout of the proposed facility, including main
   buildings, fences, and screens, access to rail if available, street access,
   parking and queuing areas, and a functional diagram indicating the proposed
   use of the site;
   
   
   
   (3)	An operating plan indicating types of waste to be accepted at the facility
   and estimates of the volume and number of trips of incoming and outgoing
   materials daily and during peak periods;
   
   
   
   (4)	A plan for preventing and controlling offensive noises, odors, rodents and
   other disease vectors;
   
   
   
   (5)	A traffic study that indicates truck routes to and from the facility on
   streets, to the extent possible, that are major arterials and highways that do
   not abut residential neighborhoods along the way, with the objective of
   minimizing potential adverse impacts on adjacent neighborhoods; and
   
   
   
   (6)	A certified statement by an architect or engineer licensed in the District
   of Columbia that the facility as sited and designed to the best of his or her
   professional knowledge and belief is capable of complying with this subsection
   and all other applicable regulations of the District of Columbia government
   including without limitation, regulations adopted pursuant to the Solid Waste
   Facility Permit Act of 1995, effective February 27, 1996 (D.C. Law 11-94, as
   amended; D.C. Official Code §§ 8-1051 to 8-1063 (formerly codified at D.C.
   Code §§ 6-3451 to 6-3463 (1999 Supp.)));
   
   
   
   (f)	There shall be no truck access, parking, standing, or queuing to the
   facility from any street or block-long portion of a street for which fifty
   percent (50%) or more of the abutting properties on either side are used for
   residential purposes. No truck dumping or picking up solid waste shall park,
   stand, or queue for the facility from any public right-of-way. Vehicular
   traffic resulting from operations at the facility shall not obstruct traffic.
   The location of the facility shall provide access from a paved street with a
   road base capable of withstanding anticipated load limits;
   
   
   
   (g)	The facility shall also be subject to the &#8220;Standards of External
   Effects (C M)&#8221; in § 804 and the District of Columbia Noise Control Act
   of 1977 (D.C. Law 2-53, as amended, and Standards, 20 DCMR chapters 27 &#8211;
   29;
   
   
   
   (h)	All solid waste handling activities, including depositing, processing,
   separation, and loading shall be within a fully enclosed building to minimize
   the adverse impacts due to noise, traffic, parking, odors, rodents and other
   disease vectors, dust, litter, fire hazard, decomposition gases, wastewater,
   vehicle and other pollution, or other hazards or objectionable conditions;
   
   
   
   (i)	The facility shall be enclosed on all sides by an opaque fence or wall at
   least ten feet (10 ft.) high. The facility shall be secured from unauthorized
   deposit and removal of solid waste or other materials when attendants are not
   present; and
   
   
   
   (j)	The facility shall provide on-site parking and queuing as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	Space shall be provided on-site to park each commercial vehicle operated
   by the facility;
   
   
   
   (2)	One employee parking space shall be provided for each commercial vehicle
   lawfully parked on the site after operating hours;
   
   
   
   (3)	If the facility serves the public, all parking and queuing space shall be
   provided on-site to accommodate projected peak demand; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Additional parking, truck maneuvering, or queuing space may be required by
   the Board after considering the applicant&#8217;s analysis of such needs and
   the reports of the D.C. Department of Transportation and the Office of
   Planning. However, at a minimum, the facility shall be configured in such a
   manner that trucks entering or leaving the facility shall not back in from or
   back out onto any public right- of-way.

   802.5. The Board may proscribe or require specific operating hours for the
   facility and the use of any street or highway for trucks entering or leaving
   the facility to lessen traffic congestion and otherwise assure the quiet
   enjoyment of residential uses adjacent to a facility.

   802.6. Nothing in this section shall preclude the Board from imposing
   additional or more strict conditions pertaining to design, screening,
   buffering, lighting, soundproofing, signs, or any matter necessary to protect
   adjacent property. Special consideration will be given to protecting
   residential property from excessive noise and traffic.

   802.7. In determining whether to grant a special exception, the Board shall
   not take into consideration whether the District of Columbia issued the
   applicant an interim- operating permit for the facility. The granting of a
   special exception to a facility does not authorize that facility to operate,
   unless the facility has been granted all other forms of permission required
   for solid waste handling facilities, including, but not limited to, a valid
   interim operating permit or solid waste facility permit. A solid waste
   handling facility that has been granted a special exception remains obligated
   to abide by all laws applicable to solid waste handling facilities and is
   subject to all claims or enforcement actions that may arise from violations of
   such laws.

   802.8. Any otherwise valid interim permit issued by the District government to
   the operator of a solid waste handling facility shall be given effect by the
   Board only during the pendency of the Board&#8217;s consideration of an
   application. In the event the Board denies the application, the continued
   operation of the facility shall be unlawful. In the event the Board grants an
   application, it may provide the applicant a reasonable time in which to
   construct the facility as approved by the Board.

   802.9. For purposes of this section, “solid waste” shall not include
   hazardous waste, which shall be subject to compliance with other regulations.

   802.10. An Electronic Equipment Facility (EEF) that does not qualify as a
   matter-of-right use under § 801.7(1) may be permitted as a special exception
   in a C-M District if approved by the Board of Zoning Adjustment under § 3104,
   subject to the requirements of §§ 802.11 through 802.16.

   802.11. An EEF shall be subject to the Standards of External Effects in §
   804.

   802.12. An applicant seeking a special exception for an EEF shall demonstrate,
   in addition to the requirements of § 3104, that the proposed use will not, as
   a consequence of its design, operation, low employee presence, or proximity to
   other EEFs, inhibit future revitalization of the neighborhood, reduce the
   potential for vibrant streetscapes, deplete street life, or inhibit pedestrian
   or vehicular movement.

   802.13. In evaluating whether an EEF will have any of the adverse impacts
   described in § 802.12, the Board shall consider, in addition to other
   relevant factors, the:
   
   
   
   (a)	Absence of retail uses or of a design capable of accommodating retail uses
   in the future;
   
   
   
   (b)	Presence of security or other elements in the design that could impair
   street life and pedestrian flow;
   
   
   
   (c)	Disruption of existing or elimination of officially proposed pedestrian or
   vehicular routes; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Inability of the EEF to be adapted in the future for permitted uses.

   802.14. The Board, in weighing the potentially adverse factors listed in §
   802.13(a) through (d), shall consider the economic development potential of
   the area in which the EEF is proposed to be established and shall give greater
   negative weight to these factors if the EEF is to be located in proximity to
   an existing or proposed Metrorail station or along a pedestrian corridor.

   802.15. The Board may give positive weight to any economic benefits that the
   proposed EEF will have on adjacent properties, including the potential for
   increased business activity within the neighborhood, if that activity will
   foster economic development.

   802.16. The Board may impose requirements pertaining to design, appearance,
   landscaping, parking, and other such requirements as it deems necessary to
   protect adjacent property and to achieve an active, safe, and vibrant street
   life.

   802.17. A facility that manufactures, processes, mixes, stores, or distributes
   concrete or asphalt or the materials that are used to make concrete or asphalt
   shall be permitted, provided that the following requirements shall be met:
   
   
   
   (a)	No portion of the facility, including the land used by such facility,
   shall be located within two hundred feet (200 feet) of a residential property
   line or of any property that is a public park or is used for retail, office,
   church, school, or institutional purposes;
   
   
   
   (b)	There shall be no truck access, parking, standing, or queuing to the
   facility from any street or block-long portion of a street for which fifty
   percent (50%) or more of the abutting properties on either side are used for
   residential purposes;
   
   
   
   (c)	No truck dumping or picking up concrete or asphalt or related materials
   shall park, stand, or queue for the facility along any public right-of-way.
   Vehicular traffic resulting from operations at the facility shall not obstruct
   traffic and the location of the facility shall provide access from a paved
   street with a road base capable of withstanding anticipated load limits;
   
   
   
   (d)	Any facility located within five hundred feet (500 feet) of a residence
   district shall not be in operation between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Hours of
   operation shall include the arrival and departure of trucks;
   
   
   
   (e)	The use shall not have unacceptable adverse impacts on the character of
   the neighborhood due to traffic, parking, or other objectionable conditions;
   
   
   
   (f)	The facility shall meet the &#8220;Standards of External Effects&#8221;
   pursuant to § 804;
   
   
   
   (g)	The facility shall be enclosed on all sides by a fence or wall at least
   ten feet (10 feet) in height. The public view side and the side of the
   facility facing residence districts or nearby or adjacent property used as a
   public park or for retail, office, church, school, or institutional purposes
   shall be landscaped and shall have an opaque screen, fence or wall, not less
   than ten feet (10 feet) in height. The use of barbed wire or razor wire that
   is visible from residential or public space is prohibited;
   
   
   
   (h)	Landscaping standards shall be applied as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	A landscape area of evergreen trees shall be maintained in the front, side
   and rear yards, and along all public rights-of-way;
   
   
   
   (2)	The landscaping shall be maintained in healthy growing condition; and
   
   
   
   (3)	The trees shall be a minimum of eight (8) feet in height when planted; and
   
   
   
   (i)	An asphalt facility shall not be located in Squares 3582, 3584, and 3518.

   802.18. The Board shall submit an application for a concrete or asphalt plant
   to the D.C. Office of Planning for coordination, review, report, and impact
   assessment, along with reports in writing of all relevant District departments
   and agencies, including but not limited to the Departments of Public Works,
   Transportation, and Health, the Soil Resources Branch of the Department of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs and, if a historic district or historic
   landmark is involved, the State Historic Preservation Officer.

   802.19. The applicant for a concrete or asphalt plant special exception shall
   provide the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A site plan showing the layout of the proposed facility, including fences
   and screens, street access, parking, and queuing areas;
   
   
   
   (b)	A landscape plan showing the planting locations and soil preparation
   techniques;
   
   
   
   (c)	A lighting plan showing the proposed lighting locations, illumination
   spread, and noting the proposed height and wattage of the lighting fixtures;
   
   
   
   (d)	A traffic study which indicates truck routes to and from the facility on
   streets abutting residential neighborhoods, with the objective of minimizing
   potential adverse impacts on adjacent neighborhoods; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A description of the facility&#8217;s methods and specifications for the
   control of odor, dust, smoke and other air pollutants, and noise.

   802.20. In addition to any other conditions deemed necessary to mitigate
   potential adverse impacts of the concrete or asphalt plant, the Board may
   impose additional conditions pertaining to design, screening, buffering,
   lighting, soundproofing, signs, methods and hours of operations, or any matter
   necessary to protect adjacent and nearby property, particularly with respect
   to protecting residential property from excessive noise and truck traffic.

   802.21. An animal boarding use may be permitted as a special exception if
   approved by the Board of Zoning Adjustment under § 3104, subject to the
   requirements of this section.

   802.22. The animal boarding use shall be located and designed to create no
   condition objectionable to adjacent properties resulting from animal noise,
   odor, or waste.

   802.23. The animal boarding use shall not abut a Residence District.

   802.24. External yards or other exterior facilities for the keeping of animals
   shall not be permitted.

   802.25. A pet grooming establishment may be permitted as a special exception
   if approved by the Board of Zoning Adjustment under § 3104, subject to the
   requirements of this subsection.
   
   
   
   (a)	The pet grooming establishment shall be located and designed to create no
   objectionable condition to adjacent properties resulting from animal noise,
   odor, or waste;
   
   
   
   (b)	All animal waste shall be placed in closed waste disposal containers and
   shall utilize a qualified waste disposal company to collect and dispose of all
   animal waste at least weekly. Odor shall be controlled by means of an air
   filtration system or an equivalently effective odor control system;
   
   
   
   (c)	The pet grooming establishment shall not abut an existing residential use
   or a Residence District;
   
   
   
   (d)	External yards or other external facilities for the keeping of animals
   shall not be permitted;
   
   
   
   (e)	The sale of pet supplies is permitted as an accessory use; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The Board may impose additional requirements as it deems necessary to
   protect adjacent or nearby properties.

   802.26. A pet shop may be permitted as a special exception if approved by the
   Board of Zoning Adjustment under § 3104, subject to the requirements of this
   subsection.
   
   
   
   (a)	The pet shop shall be located and designed to create no objectionable
   condition to adjacent properties resulting from animal noise, odor, or waste;
   
   
   
   (b)	The pet shop shall not abut an existing residential use or a Residence
   District;
   
   
   
   (c)	External yards or other external facilities for the keeping of animals
   shall not be permitted; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The Board may impose additional requirements as it deems necessary to
   protect adjacent or nearby properties.

   802.27. A veterinary boarding hospital may be permitted as a special exception
   if approved by the Board of Zoning Adjustment under § 3104, subject to the
   requirements of this subsection.
   
   
   
   (a)	A veterinary boarding hospital may board any animal permitted to be
   lawfully sold in the District of Columbia, pursuant to D.C. Official Code
   §8-1808 (h)(1), except domesticated dogs;
   
   
   
   (b)	No more than fifty percent (50%) of the gross floor area of the veterinary
   boarding hospital may be devoted to the boarding of animals;
   
   
   
   (c)	The veterinary boarding hospital shall be located and designed to create
   no objectionable conditions to adjacent properties  resulting from animal
   noise, odor, or waste;
   
   
   
   (d)	The veterinary boarding hospital shall not abut an existing residential
   use or a Residence District;
   
   
   
   (e)	External yards or other external facilities for the keeping of animals
   shall not be permitted;
   
   
   
   (f)	Pet grooming, the sale of pet supplies, and incidental boarding of animals
   as necessary for convalescence, are permitted as accessory uses; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The Board may impose additional requirements as it deems necessary to
   protect adjacent or nearby properties.

   802.28. An emergency shelter for five (5) to one hundred and fifty (150)
   persons not including resident supervisors or staff and their families, shall
   be permitted in a C-M-1 and C-M-2 Districts only, if the following
   requirements are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	There shall be no other property containing an emergency shelter for five
   (5) or more persons in the same square;
   
   
   
   (b)	There shall be no other property containing an emergency shelter for five
   (5) or more persons within a radius of one thousand (1,000) feet from any
   portion of the property;
   
   
   
   (c)	Emergency shelters shall not be located within one thousand (1,000) feet
   of a square containing a sewerage treatment plant, a wastewater treatment
   facility, or a solid waste handling facility;
   
   
   
   (d)	There shall be adequate, appropriately located, and screened off- street
   parking to provide for the needs: of occupants, employees, and visitors to the
   facility;
   
   
   
   (e)	The shelter shall not have any adverse impact on the neighborhood because
   or traffic, noise, operations, or the number of similar facilities in the
   area;
   
   
   
   (f)	Notwithstanding § 802.28 (b) the Board may approve up to one additional
   emergency shelter to be located in the same square as an existing emergency
   shelter for five (5) or more persons only if the Board finds that the
   cumulative effect of the two facilities will not have an adverse impact on the
   neighborhood because of traffic, noise, or operations;
   
   
   
   (g)	The Board may approve a facility for between one hundred and fifty-one
   (151) and three hundred (300) persons, not including resident supervisors or
   staff and their families, only if the Board finds that the program goals and
   objectives of the District of Columbia cannot be achieved by a facility of a
   smaller size at the subject location and there is no other reasonable
   alternative to meet the program needs of that area of the District provided
   that no shelter shall be approved that would increase the total number of
   emergency shelter residents housed within the square to exceed four hundred
   and fifty (450) persons; and
   
   
   
   (h)	The Board shall submit the application to the D.C. Office of Planning for
   coordination, review, report, and impact assessment, along with reports in
   writing of all relevant District departments and agencies, including but not
   limited to the Departments of Transportation and Human Services and, if a
   historic district or historic landmark is involved, the State Historic
   Preservation Officer.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: §§ 6101.36 and 6101.41 of the Zoning Regulations, effective May 12,
   1958; as amended by: Final Rulemaking published at 22 DCR 1901, 1903 (October
   14, 1975); Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 1951, 1952 (March 19, 1993);
   Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 1848, 1849 (March 27, 1998); Final
   Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9741-43 (December 8, 2000), incorporating by
   reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 8335, 8415-17
   (October 20, 2000); Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 9830, 9835-36
   (October 26, 2001); and Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 1655 (February
   22, 2002), incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking
   published at 48 DCR 11159, 11162-63 (December 7, 2001); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 1194 (February 7, 2003); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 5881, 5885 (July 21, 2006); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 6363 (August 4, 2006); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8943 (September 14, 2007); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 1794 (February 22, 2008).
