                                  DC REGULATIONS

INTERSTATE COMMERCE (ยง 9-404)

404.1. The sales tax shall be applicable to the receipts from all sales even
   though the property sold and delivered in the District is for exclusive use in
   interstate commerce.

   404.2. Receipts from the sale of tangible personal property for use in
   conducting a business which constitutes interstate commerce shall not be
   exempt from the tax solely by reason of that fact.

   404.3. Receipts from the sale of tangible personal property in the District
   shall not be exempt by reason of the fact that the vendor delivered the
   property from outside the District, if the facts and circumstances indicate
   that the contract of sale would not require, contemplate, or necessarily
   involve the shipment of goods from outside the District.

   404.4. If a registered vendor in the District undertakes to and does, in fact,
   deliver the property sold to the purchaser outside the District, and
   consideration for that delivery is included in the sales price as part of the
   retail sale, the gross receipts from the sale are exempt from the tax unless
   the property sold is for use, storage, or consumption in the District.

   404.5. If a registered vendor in the District undertakes to, and does in fact,
   deliver the property sold to a resident of the District to a place outside the
   District and that property is returned to the District by the purchaser, the
   purchaser shall be liable for a use tax on the purchase price of the property.

   404.6. If a registered vendor in the District which has no subsidiary or
   agent; or office, branch, place of distribution, sample room, or sales place;
   or warehouse or storage place; or other place of business outside the District
   undertakes to, and does in fact, deliver the property sold to a place outside
   the District under circumstances other than those set forth in ยง 404.4 or
   404.5, the question of whether that vendor is subject to the sales tax upon
   the gross receipts from the sale must be resolved by a determination of
   whether or not the sale was in fact an interstate transaction.

   404.7. Among the criteria for determining whether a transaction was an
   interstate transaction for the purposes of ยง 404.6, are the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Whether the vendor was licensed to engage in business in the jurisdiction
   to which the property was delivered by that vendor;
   
   
   
   (b)	Whether the vendor had, in connection with the business, during the
   taxable period, filed any liens, chattel mortgages, or additional sales
   contracts in the jurisdiction to which the property was delivered by that
   vendor;
   
   
   
   (c)	Whether the sale was C.O.D. at the place outside the District to which the
   property was delivered by the vendor;
   
   
   
   (d)	Whether the property was actually delivered by the vendor in its own
   equipment or was delivered through a common, private, or contract carrier paid
   by the vendor; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Whether payment for the property sold was made by the purchaser at the
   place of business of the vendor within the District.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order 54-1415, 1 DCR 4 (July 19, 1954).
