                                  DC REGULATIONS

PURCHASES FOR RESALE (ยง 9-414)

414.1. If a person purchases tangible personal property (including those items
   listed in ยง 444) for the purpose of resale; or to use or incorporate the
   property as a material or part of other tangible personal property to be
   produced for sale by manufacturing, assembling, processing or refining; the
   purchaser shall give to the vendor a certificate of resale at the time of or
   prior to making the purchase.

   414.2. The certificate of resale shall state the purpose for which the
   property is purchased, shall show the purchaser&#8217;s certificate of
   registration number, and shall be signed and dated by the purchaser.

   414.3. Each certificate of resale shall be preserved by the vendor and shall
   be the authority for the vendor not to add reimbursement for the tax to the
   sales price of the property.

   414.4. Except in cases where a Specific Exemption Certificate is furnished, or
   a contractor furnishes a Contractor&#8217;s Exempt Purchase Certificate as
   provided in ยง 438, a vendor shall collect reimbursement for the tax unless
   the purchaser has furnished a certificate of resale.

   414.5. Certificates of resale which are canceled in accordance with the
   provisions of the Act and this chapter are void as of the date of publication
   of the notice of cancellation, as provided in ยง 415.

   414.6. If a person purchases tangible personal property for purposes other
   than those enumerated in the certificate of resale, that certificate of resale
   cannot be used and the purchaser must reimburse the vendor for the sales tax
   or file a return and pay the tax as a consumer or user under the use tax, as
   the case may be.

   414.7. The following form of the certificate of resale may be copied for use
   by registered vendors and exempted purchasers:
   
   
   
   CERTIFICATE OF RESALE
   
   (Purchaser&#8217;s Certificate)
   
   
   
   Furnished under the District of Columbia Sales and Use Tax Acts
   
   
   
   
   
   Date:
   
   
   
   To:
   
   
   
   
   
   (Name of Seller)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (Address of Seller)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   This is to certify that all tangible personal property and services purchased
   by the undersigned from you will be purchased for use as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	For resale as tangible personal property in the same form as received from
   you:
   
   
   
   [LIST APPLICABLE ITEMS]
   
   
   
   (2)	To be incorporated as a material or parts of other tangible personal
   property to be produced for sale by manufacturing, assembling, processing, or
   refining:
   
   
   
   [LIST APPLICABLE ITEMS]
   
   
   
   (3)	Any natural or artificial gas, oil, electricity, solid fuel, or steam
   purchased from you will be used in manufacturing, assembling, processing, or
   refining:
   
   
   
   [LIST APPLICABLE ITEMS]
   
   
   
   This certificate shall be considered a part of each order which we place with
   you; Provided, that each order will contain our D. C. Certificate of
   Registration number (or Specific Exemption Certificate number), followed by
   the applicable number(s) from this certificate-(1), (2), or (3)-to specify
   which of the items listed above are covered by that order.
   
   
   
   This certificate shall continue in force until revoked by notice to you in
   writing.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (Name of Purchaser)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   By:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (Title)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   D.C. Registration No
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   or)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   D.C. Specific Exemption No
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   NOTE: THE SELLER MUST PRESERVE THIS CERTIFICATE
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order 54-1415, 1 DCR 4 (July 19, 1954).
