                                  DC REGULATIONS

SALES TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENT AGENCIES, DIPLOMATS, EMPLOYEES, AND MILITARY
PERSONNEL (ยง 9-419)

419.1. By reason of privileges, exemptions, and immunities granted to certain
   foreign governments, those governments and their agencies (including
   embassies, legations, and commissions) may make purchases within the District
   of property or services for use in the conduct of their official activities if
   paid from their own funds without payment of the sales and use tax.

   419.2. A letter of exemption with a separate identification number shall be
   issued by the District to each agency entitled to exemption under this
   section.

   419.3. Each vendor shall keep a record of the following information with
   respect to sales to agencies which are exempt under this section:
   
   
   
   (a)	The sales price of each sale;
   
   
   
   (b)	The date of each sale;
   
   
   
   (c)	The name of the purchasing agency; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The agency&#8217;s exemption number.

   419.4. Each vendor shall also keep a copy of the purchase order or a copy of
   the voucher accompanying the payment, and shall obtain the signature of the
   person making the purchase.

   419.5. An employee of an exempt agency may not use the agency&#8217;s
   exemption number to make purchases for his or her own personal use and are
   required to pay the District sales tax unless they are holders of a U.S.
   Department of State exemption card.

   419.6. The Department of State determines, with the approval of the District,
   which diplomats and other employees of foreign governments are entitled to
   exemption from District sales and use taxes, and issues to each exempt person
   an exemption identification card designated &#8220;EXEMPTION CARD&#8221; (Form
   DS-816).

   419.7. The exemption identification card shall bear the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the individual who is entitled to the exemption;
   
   
   
   (b)	The individual&#8217;s official title;
   
   
   
   (c)	The name of the country or agency with which the person is connected;
   
   
   
   (d)	An assigned identification card number; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The exempt individual&#8217;s photograph and signature.

   419.8. By showing the exemption identification card to a vendor, the holder
   shall be entitled to make purchases in the District without paying the
   District sales or use tax.

   419.9. When making a tax-free sale to a person holding an exemption
   identification card, a vendor shall exercise care to be certain of the
   identification of the purchaser by comparing the purchaser and his or her
   signature with the photograph and signature on the card.

   419.10. No sales shall be made on a tax-free basis to any person other than
   one to whom an exemption card has been issued.

   419.11. Vendors shall keep a record of sales to persons exempt under this
   section which shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the purchaser;
   
   
   
   (b)	The date of the sale;
   
   
   
   (c)	The amount of the sale;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Department of State identification card number; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A copy of the signature of the purchaser.

   419.12. If the Department of State severs diplomatic relations with any
   country, the diplomats from that country will no longer be allowed to make
   tax-free purchases and their privileges will be revoked. Vendors will be
   notified from time to time by the Office of Finance and Revenue of revocations
   imposed under this section.

   419.13. Sales to members of armed forces of foreign countries shall be subject
   to the District sales tax unless they hold a Department of State exemption
   identification card. District sales tax liability is not affected by Public
   Law 271, 81st Congress, which grants an exemption from customs duties and
   import taxes for foreign military personnel.

   419.14. Vendors shall not accept the following means of identification as the
   basis for making tax-free sales:
   
   
   
   (a)	A &#8220;Certificate of Exemption of Foreign Diplomatic Officers and
   Employees from Motor Fuel Tax.&#8221; (This card is different from the
   &#8220;EXEMPTION CARD&#8221; (Form DS-816) issued under ยง 419.6.);
   
   
   
   (b)	A foreign passport or a visa card issued by the U.S. government to a
   foreign visitor or resident alien;
   
   
   
   (c)	An identification card issued to an exchange student from a foreign
   nation; or
   
   
   
   (d)	The wearing of a uniform by military personnel of foreign governments.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Administrative Ruling No. 22, 16 DCRR.
