                                  DC REGULATIONS

FOOD SERVED OR SOLD TO STUDENTS, PATIENTS, EMPLOYEES, FOOD STAMP RECIPIENTS, AND
OTHERS (§ 9-443)

443.1. Meals and food products served, with or without charge, by a
   semi-public personal or professional service institution or organization
   (which holds a Certificate of Exemption issued under the provisions of the
   Act) to pupils, students, or patients are not subject to the sales tax whether
   or not prepared by such institutions. The furnishing of such meals and food
   products is considered to be exclusively for the purpose of maintaining,
   conducting, and rendering the service for which those institutions or
   organizations are organized and operated.

   443.2. Meals and food products prepared and served by a convalescent home,
   educational institution, hospital, or similar institution which does not
   qualify as a semi-public institution under the Act (D.C. Code § 47-2001(r))
   to students, teachers, doctors, nurses, and employees, where no separate
   charge is made, are not subject to the sales tax; Provided, that if the
   non-exempt institution purchases food prepared by others, those purchases
   shall be subject to the tax.

   443.3. Sales of tangible personal property, including meals, foods, or drink,
   as provided in § 114(a)(1) of the Act by a semi-public institution, or any
   other entity, to employees, doctors, nurses, or the general public shall be
   retail sales subject to the sales tax.

   443.4. Sales of tangible personal property, including meals and food products
   by any person other than a semi-public institution on the premises of
   semi-public or other institutions shall be subject to the tax.

   443.5. Meals or food furnished to employees or others shall not be considered
   sales if those meals or food are furnished instead of cash and recorded as
   part of the employee&#8217;s compensation, or if those meals or food are
   furnished to the employees or others for the employer&#8217;s convenience.

   443.6. Meals sold to employees in the same manner as meals shall be sold to
   the public, or meals which are sold in cafeterias, dining rooms, lunch
   counters, or other places operated for employees are taxable sales.

   443.7. Sales of eligible foods, as defined in the Code of Federal Regulations
   at 7 CFR § 271.2, purchased with food stamps issued by the United States
   Department of Agriculture shall not be subject to the sales tax.

   443.8. For purposes of this section, the term &#8220;eligible foods&#8221;
   means the following items:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any food or food product intended for human consumption except alcoholic
   beverages, tobacco, and hot foods and hot food products prepared for immediate
   consumption;
   
   
   
   (b)	Seeds and plants to grow foods for the personal consumption of eligible
   households;
   
   
   
   (c)	Meals prepared and delivered by an authorized meal delivery service to
   households eligible to use food stamps to purchase delivered meals, or meals
   served by an authorized communal dining facility for the elderly, for
   Supplemental Security Income households or both, to households eligible to use
   food stamps for communal dining;
   
   
   
   (d)	Meals prepared and served by a drug addict or alcoholic treatment and
   rehabilitation center to eligible households;
   
   
   
   (e)	Meals prepared and served by a group living arrangement facility to
   residents who are blind or disabled recipients of benefits under Title II or
   Title XVI of the Social Security Act; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Meals prepared by and served by a shelter for battered women and children
   to its eligible residents.

   443.9. Food stamps issued by the United States Department of Agriculture shall
   not be used to purchase the following items:
   
   
   
   (a)	Alcoholic beverages;
   
   
   
   (b)	Tobacco or cigarettes;
   
   
   
   (c)	Household supplies;
   
   
   
   (d)	Soaps;
   
   
   
   (e)	Paper products;
   
   
   
   (f)	Medicines or vitamins;
   
   
   
   (g)	Any other nonfood items;
   
   
   
   (h)	Food that will be eaten in the store;
   
   
   
   (i)	Hot foods that are ready to eat, such as barbecued chicken; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Pet foods.

   443.10. Sales of the following representative items purchased for immediate
   consumption shall be taxable when the foods listed are purchased with cash in
   the quantities indicated, but exempt when the foods are purchased with food
   stamps:
   
   
   
   (a)	Half-pint containers of milk;
   
   
   
   (b)	Candy bars (fewer than six);
   
   
   
   (c)	Can or bottled sodas (fewer than six);
   
   
   
   (d)	Cold sandwiches; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Certain other foods packaged and purchased for immediate consumption.

   443.11. Sales of eligible foods such as those listed in § 443.10(a), (b) and
   (c) shall be exempt from sales tax if sold in larger quantities whether
   purchased with cash or food stamps.

   443.12. If a sale combines taxable eligible food items, such as those listed
   in § 443.10, with nontaxable eligible food items, and if the purchase is to
   be made in part with food stamps and in part with cash, the vendor shall
   allocate the food stamps to the taxable food items first, then to the
   nontaxable food items.
   
   
   
   For example: A customer arrives at the check-out stand with five dollars ($
   5.00) in food stamps and five dollars ($ 5.00) in cash. The amount of the
   purchase totals eight dollars ($ 8.00) of nontaxable eligible food in two
   dollars ($ 2.00) of taxable items first and then allocate the remaining three
   dollars ($ 3.00) of food stamps to the nontaxable food items. Thus, in this
   case, no sales tax would be collected.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order 54-1415, 1 DCR 4 (July 19, 1954); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 8161 (December 18, 1987).
