                                  DC REGULATIONS

ORTHOPEDIC AND PROSTHETIC APPLIANCES (ยง 9-453)

453.1. The exemption under ยง 128(p) of the Act shall apply only to particular
   orthopedic and prosthetic devices individually designed, constructed, or
   structurally altered for the use of a particular individual to become a brace,
   support, supplement, correction, or substitute for the bodily structure
   (including the extremities) of the individual.

   453.2. Sales of simple elastic supports (and supports whose effectiveness is
   secured through use of straps, laces, or pads) which are designed to correct
   weakened muscular, vascular, or glandular conditions, and are obtainable in
   standardized forms from regular retail dealers shall not be exempt from the
   tax.

   453.3. Sales of form-fitting foundation garments designed primarily as aids to
   the appearance or comfort of the wearer considered are not exempt even though
   specially fitted or constructed for the wearer.

   453.4. Sales of form-fitting foundation garments designed primarily as aids to
   the appearance or comfort of the wearer considered are not exempt even though
   purchased at the direction of a physician or pursuant to written advice from a
   physician.

   453.5. In order to be included in the category of exempt sales, shoes must be
   expressly designed and constructed, or reconstructed and fitted to a
   particular individual to correct an abnormal foot condition or to supplement
   or substitute for natural inadequacies of a foot or leg.

   453.6. The addition to stock or standard shoes (termed or advertised as
   &#8220;corrective&#8221; or &#8220;orthopedic&#8221;), or wedges, bars,
   crescents, pads, wafers, stays, or other similar devices will not serve to
   classify shoes as exempt under this section; however, the reconstruction of
   shoes to incorporate mechanical ankle or leg braces will place the shoes in
   the exempt classification.

   453.7. Splints, splint materials, plaster cast materials, external pin
   fixations, and similar items are not exempt when sold to physicians, surgeons,
   or first-aid units for use in performing their services, unless the items will
   be resold by the purchaser and the charges for that resale are stated
   separately from the charges made for any personal services rendered in
   connection with the items.

   453.8. If a physician, surgeon, or first-aid unit resells any of the items
   listed in ยง 453.7, the re-seller must be registered and furnish the supplier
   with a Certificate of Resale.

   453.9. Receipts from the sale of the following appliances are taxable
   regardless of the conditions of design or construction (The list is not
   all-inclusive, and the taxability of any item not appearing on the list should
   be determined by reference to the other provisions of this section or by
   comparison to listed items):
   
   
   
   (a)	Abdominal supports, kidney supports, and uterine supports;
   
   
   
   (b)	Obesity supports, maternity supports, and postoperative supports;
   
   
   
   (c)	Trusses, athletic supporters, suspensories, thumb protectors;
   
   
   
   (d)	Surgical shoes;
   
   
   
   (e)	Elastic goods, such as stockings, thigh pieces, leggings, elbow caps, knee
   caps, wristlets, anklets, arch supports, or bandages;
   
   
   
   (f)	Ear correction caps;
   
   
   
   (g)	Eye shades and shields;
   
   
   
   (h)	Mouth breathing prevention devices; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Artificial breasts.

   453.10. A ruling on the proper tax classification of any doubtful item may be
   obtained upon written request addressed to the Office.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Administrative Ruling No. 12, 16 DCRR.
