                                  DC REGULATIONS

MORTICIANS (ยง 9-450)

450.1. For the purposes of this chapter, the term &#8220;morticians&#8221;
   includes undertakers, embalmers, funeral directors, and others (including
   corporations) engaged in rendering services similar to the services rendered
   by &#8220;morticians.&#8221;

   450.2. Receipts from sales of tangible personal property by morticians, such
   as caskets, appurtenances, grave vaults, and clothing, shall be subject to the
   tax, even though personal services (such as embalming and providing delivery
   services and other equipment in conducting funerals) are rendered in
   connection with the sale of these items.

   450.3. If a mortician charges a lump sum to customers which covers the entire
   cost of the funeral (in other words, without separating the charge for
   services from charges for tangible personal property in the bill rendered to
   the customer), the tax shall be imposed upon the fair retail value of all
   extras or property furnished in addition to that customarily furnished with
   standard service, plus fifty percent (50%) of the remaining charges after
   excluding the value of those extras.

   450.4. The amount charged for a &#8220;standard funeral service&#8221; shall
   be based on the sales price of a casket and includes certain services, such as
   embalming, preparation of the remains, obtaining permits, and transportation.
   The tangible personal property furnished shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The casket;
   
   
   
   (b)	The body pouch;
   
   
   
   (c)	The registration book; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Acknowledgement cards.

   450.5. Items of tangible personal property, listed as extras and charged for
   separately, shall be subject to sales tax on the full sales price of such
   articles. The following items shall be sold as extras:
   
   
   
   (a)	Dresses, suits, slumber robes, burial blankets, underwear, hose, and
   slippers;
   
   
   
   (b)	Crucifixes, and emblems; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Vaults, urns (including engraving charges), and shipping cases.

   450.6. If the selling price of the tangible personal property is stated
   separately from the service charge on any bill to the customer, the tax shall
   be imposed only upon the selling price of the personal property.

   450.7. If property and service charges are stated separately, as provided in
   ยง 450.4, the sale of that tangible personal property to the mortician shall
   be subject to the provisions of ยง 414 as purchases for resale.

   450.8. Services including, but not limited to, clergymen, grave openings and
   closings, church hire, music, singers, and similar services, which are paid
   for by the mortician and subsequently repaid to him or her by the person(s)
   engaging the mortician&#8217;s services, shall not be subject to tax, if those
   services are separately itemized in the mortician&#8217;s bill.

   450.9. If no part of the services of the mortician other than embalming the
   body, placing the body in a casket, and delivering the body from the District
   to a point outside the District (either in the mortician&#8217;s own equipment
   or by common or contract carrier) takes place in the District, the tax shall
   not apply to the sale of tangible personal property in connection with those
   services.

   450.10. Tangible personal property used or consumed in performing non-taxable
   services shall include cosmetics, embalming chemicals, hardening compounds,
   and similar materials. It is immaterial whether or not the non-taxable
   services are included in the charges for a standard funeral service or are
   separately itemized on the invoice. Purchases of these materials shall be
   subject to use tax if the sales tax was not paid at the time of purchase.

   450.11. The following items shall be used by a mortician in the conduct of the
   business and are subject to use tax if the sales tax was not paid at the time
   of purchase:
   
   
   
   (a)	Advertising materials, calendars, pamphlets, fans, hats, pencils, gifts,
   candles, vigil lites, and flower stands;
   
   
   
   (b)	Soaps and disinfectants;
   
   
   
   (c)	Injection guns, needles, gloves, embalming room equipment, and casket
   trucks; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Furniture and fixtures.

   450.12. If a mortician makes a cash expenditure for flowers or any other item
   of tangible personal property and adds the charge to the customer&#8217;s bill
   for those items, the mortician is performing a service for the customer and
   shall pay the sales tax to the vendor.

   450.13. Other items of cash expenditure, such as newspaper notices, crematory
   charges, certificate of death, and opening and closing the grave, shall not be
   subject to the sales tax.

   450.14. If no tangible personal property is sold in connection with a
   &#8220;ship-in,&#8221; the tax shall not apply to any portion of charges for
   services, whether or not the parlor or chapel facilities are used.

   450.15. If a casket is furnished or any other tangible personal property is
   sold in connection with a &#8220;ship-in,&#8221; the tax shall apply.

   450.16. If no part of the services of the mortician takes place in the
   District, other than embalming the body, placing the body in a casket, and
   delivering the body from the District to a point outside the District, either
   in the mortician&#8217;s own equipment or by common or contract carrier, the
   tax shall not apply to the sales of that tangible personal property. However,
   if the remains are made available in the District for the public or friends to
   pay their respects, then the tax shall apply.

   450.17. Persons who shroud bodies are considered to be performing a service.
   The charge for shrouding shall not be subject to sales tax. Persons who shroud
   bodies are considered to be the consumers of all materials and supplies which
   they purchase to operate their businesses, and must reimburse their suppliers
   (vendors) for the tax.

   450.18. If a mortician rents limousines and hearses for the conduct of a
   funeral, the mortician is the lessee and shall pay the sales tax to the lessor
   or owner of the equipment, even though the charges are separately stated on
   the invoice to the customer.

   450.19. No tax shall be charged to the customer for use of vehicles rented by
   the mortician, since this service is considered a transportation service and
   not a rental.

   450.20. If one mortician rents vehicles to another mortician during a
   particular period, and a net payment is made by one to the other, each one
   shall be required to collect and report the sales tax on the gross rental
   charges for the equipment.

   450.21. The tax shall be payable for each rental period during which the
   hearse or limousine is within the boundaries of the District.

   450.22. If vehicles are rented in the District and removed from the District
   for the complete duration of any rental period(s), the tax shall not apply to
   the gross receipts for the period(s) beginning after its removal from the
   District and ending before its return.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order 54-1415, 1 DCR 4 (July 19, 1954); as
   amended by Commissioners&#8217; Order 56-890 effective May 9, 1956, 2 DCR 304
   (May 21, 1956).
