                                  DC REGULATIONS

PUBLICATIONS AND SERVICES OF ORGANIZATIONS AND ASSOCIATIONS (§ 9-460)

460.1. The provisions of this section shall apply to organizations and
   associations located in the District that provide services to members and that
   publish periodicals for distribution to members or for sale to the public and
   members.

   460.2. Membership dues paid to organizations and associations shall be exempt
   from the sales tax. Publications and services provided to members as part of
   the membership dues, without additional charge, shall also be exempt from the
   sales tax.

   460.3. If an organization or association distributes a publication to members
   without additional charge, printing charges paid for any such publication by
   the organization shall be taxed as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The sales tax applies to the entire printing charge, if the organization
   or its agent takes delivery of the total printing order; or
   
   
   
   (b)	If the organization or its agent takes delivery of less than the entire
   printing order, the sales tax applies to the portion of the printing charge
   attributable to the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	To the amount of the order of which the organization or its agent takes
   delivery; and
   
   
   
   (2)	To the amount of the order which is delivered to members in the District.

   460.4. If an organization or association sells the publication to members for
   an amount in addition to the membership dues or fees, or to non-members, the
   tax shall apply to printing charges and to sales of publications, as set forth
   in §§ 460.5 and 460.6.

   460.5. The printing charges shall be exempt from the tax, if the organization
   furnishes the printer with the certificate of resale;

   460.6. Subsequent sale(s) of the publication for delivery inside the District
   shall be subject to tax. Sales of the publication for delivery outside the
   District shall not be subject to the tax.

   460.7. If an organization purchases taxable services, such as data processing
   or information services, to provide to its members as part of the membership
   dues, without additional charge, the organization shall be considered the
   consumer of the taxable services. The organization shall be subject to the
   sales or use tax if the services are delivered to the organization in the
   District or delivered to the organization outside the District for use within
   the District. (See §§ 474 and 475)
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Administrative Ruling No. 15, 16 DCRR; as amended by Final Rulemaking
   published at 37 DCR 5265 (August 10, 1990).
