                                  DC REGULATIONS

LANDSCAPING (ยง 9-473)

473.1. Landscaping is the activity of arranging or modifying an area of land
   or natural scenery, by planting, removing or replacing plant life or by
   altering the contours of the ground. The services of landscaping and landscape
   construction, design, and architecture are taxable. Examples of services
   subject to tax under landscaping include, but are not limited to, the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Landscape consultation, research, or design;
   
   
   
   (b)	Landscape site planning, analysis, or assessment;
   
   
   
   (c)	Selection of plant materials;
   
   
   
   (d)	Stump and tree removal;
   
   
   
   (e)	Transplanting trees, shrubs, and other vegetation; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Planting or replacing flowers, shrubs, trees or other vegetation.

   473.2. Further examples of services which are taxable when performed under a
   landscaping contract include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Installation of railroad ties, timberwork, or stonework;
   
   
   
   (b)	Installation of fencing, patios, walkways, or decks;
   
   
   
   (c)	Installation of retaining walls, drainage, or sprinkler systems;
   
   
   
   (d)	Installation of ponds; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Grading and sodding.

   473.3. Vendors providing landscaping services or performing landscaping
   contracts may issue a resale certificate on all tangible personal property
   that will be sold or transferred as part of the taxable service or taxable
   contract.
   
   
   
   For example, a landscape contractor who purchases trees and shrubs for
   installation may issue a resale certificate for those materials.

   473.4. Vendors providing temporary help to perform landscaping services shall
   be required to collect the sales tax on the charges for that service. The tax
   shall be collected even if the temporary help performs some inconsequential
   nontaxable services. However, vendors providing temporary help for nontaxable
   services shall not be required to collect the tax if that help also performs
   some inconsequential taxable landscaping services.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 8057, 8064 (November 24, 1989).
