                                  DC REGULATIONS

REAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE (§ 9-472)

472.1. Gross receipts from the sale of or charges for the service of real
   property maintenance shall be subject to the tax. For the purpose of this
   section, the term &#8220;real property maintenance&#8221; means the activities
   of keeping the land or premises of a building clean, orderly and functional,
   including performing minor adjustments, maintenance or repairs.

   472.2. Examples of keeping the land or the premises of a building clean,
   orderly and functional include, but are not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Wall and ceiling cleaning;
   
   
   
   (b)	Pest control;
   
   
   
   (c)	Exterior and interior window cleaning;
   
   
   
   (d)	Floor (hardwood or tile) cleaning;
   
   
   
   (e)	Restroom cleaning and stocking;
   
   
   
   (f)	Exterior and interior trash removal;
   
   
   
   (g)	Maintenance of inground or indoor swimming pools;
   
   
   
   (h)	Exterior building cleaning;
   
   
   
   (i)	Chimney and duct cleaning;
   
   
   
   (j)	Parking lot, garage and recreational area maintenance; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Ground maintenance, including:
   
   
   
   (1)	Fertilizing;
   
   
   
   (2)	Thatching;
   
   
   
   (3)	Mulching;
   
   
   
   (4)	Seeding;
   
   
   
   (5)	Edging; and
   
   
   
   (6)	Aeration.

   472.3. The term &#8220;real property maintenance&#8221; shall not include
   activities such as painting, wallpapering, or other services performed as part
   of construction or major repair services performed under an employee-employer
   relationship, or services performed by persons who are not considered to be
   regularly engaged in business.

   472.4. For the purpose of this section, an &#8220;employer-employee
   relationship&#8221; exits if the employer exercises or has the right to
   exercise control over the individual in the performance of services under the
   usual common law rules applicable in determining the employer-employee
   relationship, not only as to the result to be accomplished by the work, but
   also as to the details and means by which that result is accomplished. Other
   factors characteristic of an employer, but not necessarily present in every
   case, are the furnishing of tools and the furnishing of a place to work to the
   individual who performs the services. Workers provided under temporary help
   service contracts or under other agreements are not considered employees for
   the purpose of this section.

   472.5. Whether the relationship of employer and employee exists shall be
   determined, when the issue arises, upon an examination of the particular facts
   of each case.

   472.6. A maintenance or janitorial contract includes minor adjustments,
   maintenance or repairs that are performed on the land or building. These tasks
   are performed in the normal course of the contract and are usually performed
   with small tools (hammer, screw driver, pliers, etc.). Examples of minor
   adjustments include, but are not limited to, bulb, fuse and filter
   replacements; wall plate replacements; oiling of motors or other movable
   items; motor screw adjustments; installation of peepholes, kickplates and
   mailslots; and installation of doorstops and weather stripping.

   472.7. Minor adjustments shall not include a complete overhaul of any
   equipment associated with the real property. If a District building permit is
   needed, the task shall not be considered to be minor. Examples of repairs that
   are exempt from the tax include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Replacement of sinks, garbage disposals, toilets, tubs;
   
   
   
   (b)	Major repairs to hot water heaters;
   
   
   
   (c)	Additions to electrical panels; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Replacement of shingles or siding.

   472.8. Inground or indoor swimming pool maintenance includes seasonal services
   such as winterization, spring start-ups, chemical treatments, pump and filter
   cleaning, vacuum cleaning, wall cleaning and scrubbing and any necessary minor
   repairs. Inground or indoor swimming pool maintenance shall not include
   retiling or other major repairs such as overhaul of the heating system,
   pumping, or electrical systems.

   472.9. Parking lot, garage and recreational area maintenance includes services
   such as sweeping, cleaning, pressure washing, vacuuming, mowing and snow
   removal. Real property maintenance for parking lots, garages and recreational
   areas shall not include pavement patching, asphalt repair, sealing, grading,
   or installing wheelstops.

   472.10. Pest control consists of the services of identifying, preventing,
   controlling, or eliminating, by use of chemical or mechanical means,
   infestation of any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Insects, including, but not limited to, spiders, mites, ticks, ants, and
   bees;
   
   
   
   (b)	Wood infesting organisms;
   
   
   
   (c)	Rodents;
   
   
   
   (d)	Nuisance birds;
   
   
   
   (e)	Any other undesirable animals or pests that may infest buildings; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Pest infestations or diseases of trees, shrubs or other plantings.

   472.11. Trash removal service includes the removal of waste, refuse and other
   discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous
   material, resulting from industrial operations, commercial operations, and
   institutional activities.

   472.12. Vendors providing real property maintenance services may issue a
   resale certificate on all tangible personal property that will be sold or
   transferred as part of the taxable service or taxable contract. Items such as
   brushes, mops, brooms, and wiping cloths that are consumed in performing or
   used to perform taxable real property maintenance services shall not be
   considered to be sold or transferred as a part of the taxable service;
   therefore, such items shall not be purchased with a certificate of resale.
   Examples of materials for which a vendor may issue a resale certificate
   include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Cleaning compounds;
   
   
   
   (b)	Plastic liners;
   
   
   
   (c)	Soap, paper and toiletry supplies;
   
   
   
   (d)	Pest control chemicals, foggers and traps;
   
   
   
   (e)	Light bulbs and fixtures;
   
   
   
   (f)	Odor controls; or
   
   
   
   (g)	Wax and maintenance chemicals.

   472.13. Vendors providing temporary help to perform real property maintenance
   shall be required to collect the sales tax on the charges for that service.
   The tax shall be collected even if the temporary help performs some
   inconsequential nontaxable services. Vendors providing temporary help for
   nontaxable services shall not be required to collect the tax if that help also
   performs some inconsequential taxable real property maintenance services.
   Temporary help includes maids-for-hire performing real property maintenance
   services for domestic purposes as well as commercial purposes.

   472.14. Property management companies that are responsible for the management
   of properties in the District of Columbia shall not be considered vendors.
   Those companies shall be considered consumers of all materials and services
   purchased to manage the property, including the services of subcontractors.
   Vendors, including subcontractors, providing materials and services to
   property management companies shall be required to collect the sales tax on
   the charges to these companies. For the purposes of this section, a property
   management company is a company providing mixed taxable and nontaxable
   services, such as real property maintenance and rent collection, to manage
   property for a contracted fee.

   472.15. Property management companies providing real property maintenance
   services through their own employees shall not be required to collect the
   sales tax on the charges for these services.

   472.16. Property management companies shall be considered vendors if they
   provide taxable services outside of the property management contract or if
   they solely provide taxable services, either through their own employees or
   through subcontractors. As vendors, they may issue a certificate of resale for
   the materials and services they purchase in accordance with § 472.12.

   472.17. All other persons performing services usually provided by property
   management companies shall be considered consumers of all materials and
   services purchased to manage the property.

   472.18. Real property maintenance services performed on the construction site
   shall not be considered &#8220;other services performed as part of
   construction.&#8221; Real property maintenance services, such as trash
   hauling, window cleaning, building cleaning, or any of the services listed at
   §§ 472.2, 472.6, 472.8, 472.9, 472.10 and 472.11, performed on the
   construction site shall be subject to the District sales tax. &#8220;Other
   services performed as part of construction&#8221; includes such services as
   plumbing, wiring, masonry work, and other major repairs, additions, or
   improvements to real property.

   472.19. A vendor purchasing real property maintenance services from another
   vendor may issue a resale certificate for the taxable services rendered. The
   certificate shall be preserved by the vendor accepting the certificate and
   shall be the authority for that vendor not to add reimbursement for the tax to
   the price of the service.
   
   
   
   For example, Company A is performing a janitorial contract for XYZ Management
   Company. Included in the contract are services for window cleaning and trash
   removal. These services are subcontracted to B and C. Company A may issue a
   certificate of resale to B and to C. Neither B nor C would collect tax from
   Company A for the services they rendered. However, Company A would collect tax
   from XYZ.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 8057, 8059 (November 24, 1989).
