                                  DC REGULATIONS

DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (ยง 9-474)

474.1. Gross receipts from the sale of or charges for data processing services
   shall be subject to the tax. For the purpose of this section, the term
   &#8220;data processing services&#8221; means the processing of information for
   the purpose of compiling and producing records of transactions, maintaining
   information, and entering and retrieving information. It also includes word
   processing, payroll and business accounting, and computerized data and
   information storage and manipulation.

   474.2. Examples of data processing services include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Entry of inventory control data for a company;
   
   
   
   (b)	Maintenance of records of employee work time;
   
   
   
   (c)	Filing payroll tax returns;
   
   
   
   (d)	Preparing W-2 forms; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Computing and preparing payroll checks.

   474.3. Data processing services shall not include the use of a computer by a
   provider of other services when the computer is used to facilitate the
   performance of the service or the application of the knowledge of accounting
   principles and tax laws. Purchasers of data processing services used to
   perform professional services, such as accounting and legal services, shall be
   considered consumers of the data processing services and thus shall be subject
   to the tax on the services.

   474.4. Gross receipts from the sale, lease or rental, or maintenance of any
   computer software shall be subject to the tax regardless of whether the
   software is canned, prepackaged or customized. Examples of taxable computer
   software and software services include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	System software;
   
   
   
   (b)	Application software;
   
   
   
   (c)	Computer programming;
   
   
   
   (d)	Software modification; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Software updating.

   474.5. Data processing services performed, purchased, or delivered outside of
   the District but subsequently brought into the District for use or consumption
   shall be subject to the District use tax; Provided, that no sales tax was
   required to be paid to the other jurisdiction. Data processing services
   performed or delivered outside of the District for use within other
   jurisdictions as well as for use within the District shall be subject to the
   District use tax on a prorated share of the charge; Provided, that no sales
   tax was required to be paid on that prorated share to the other jurisdiction.
   Data processing services sold and delivered by the vendor to locations outside
   of the District shall be exempt from the sales tax.

   474.6. Vendors providing data processing services may issue a resale
   certificate on all tangible personal property or services purchased for resale
   or rental either in the same form or for incorporation in the same form as a
   material part of other property or services being produced or provided for
   resale or rental.
   
   
   
   For example, if a service were sold to the customer on magnetic tape, the tape
   may be purchased with a certificate of resale.

   474.7. Vendors providing temporary help to perform data processing services,
   including consultation, computer programming, and software alteration,
   modification, and updating shall be required to collect the tax on these
   services. The tax shall be collected even if the temporary help performs some
   inconsequential nontaxable services. However, vendors providing temporary
   secretarial and clerical help who also perform some inconsequential data
   processing services shall not be required to collect the tax.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 8057, 8065 (November 24, 1989).
