                                  DC REGULATIONS

INFORMATION SERVICES (ยง 9-475)

475.1. Gross receipts from the sale or charges for information services shall
   be subject to the sales tax. For the purpose of this section, the term
   &#8220;information services&#8221; includes furnishing general or specialized
   news or current information by printed, mimeographed, electronic, or
   electrical transmission, or by utilizing wires, cables, radio waves,
   microwaves, satellites, fiber optics, or any other method now in existence or
   which may be devised, and electronic data retrieval or research.

   475.2. Information which is gathered, maintained, or compiled and made
   available by the provider of the information service to the public or to a
   specific segment of industry for a consideration shall be subject to sales
   tax.

   475.3. Information services, whether sold by subscription or on an as-needed
   basis, shall be taxable.

   475.4. Information services shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Credit reports;
   
   
   
   (b)	Newsletters;
   
   
   
   (c)	Financial;
   
   
   
   (d)	Investment;
   
   
   
   (e)	Stock market;
   
   
   
   (f)	Bond rating reports;
   
   
   
   (g)	Wire service information;
   
   
   
   (h)	Scouting reports and surveys; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Real estate listings.

   475.5. Charges to a person by financial institutions for account balance
   information shall not be subject to the tax.

   475.6. The sale of information which is gathered or compiled on behalf a
   particular client shall not be subject to tax if the information is of a
   proprietary nature to that client and may not be sold to others by the person
   who gathered or compiled the information. However, this exclusion shall not
   apply to the sales of software which are taxable under ยง 474 of this chapter.
   Any subsequent sale of such information by the client for whom the information
   was gathered or compiled is subject to the tax.

   475.7. Vendors providing information services may issue a resale certificate
   on all tangible personal property or services purchased for resale or rental
   either in the same form or for incorporation in the same form as a material
   part of other property or services being produced or provided for resale or
   rental. For example, if information is to be sold on a cassette tape, the
   vendor could purchase the tape with a resale certificate.

   475.8. Information services performed, purchased, or delivered outside of the
   District but subsequently brought into the District for use or consumption
   shall be subject to the District use tax; Provided, that no sales tax is
   required to be paid to the other jurisdiction.

   475.9. Information services performed or delivered outside of the District for
   use within other jurisdictions, as well as for use within the District shall
   be subject to a prorated share of the District use tax; Provided, that no
   sales tax was required to be paid on that prorated share to the other
   jurisdiction. Information services sold and delivered by the vendor to
   locations outside of the District shall be exempt from the sales tax.

   475.10. Subscriptions to cable television shall not be considered to be
   information services and shall not be taxable.

   475.11. Vendors providing temporary help to perform information services shall
   be subject to the tax on these services. The tax shall be collected even if
   the temporary help performs some inconsequential nontaxable services. However,
   vendors providing temporary help for nontaxable services shall not be required
   to collect the tax if that help also performs some inconsequential taxable
   information services.

   475.12. Purchasers of information services used to perform professional
   services, such as accounting and legal services, shall be considered consumers
   of the information services and thus shall be subject to the tax on the
   services.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 8057, 8067 (November 24, 1989).
