                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACTS FOR MOVING HOUSEHOLD GOODS (ยง 16-702)

702.1. Each contract required under ยง 700.2 shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address, and telephone number of the contractor;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement of each service to be performed for which charges will be
   made;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement of the amount of each charge or the manner in which it shall
   be computed;
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement of the manner and time of payment;
   
   
   
   (e)	The approximate date(s) on which the moving required by the contract is to
   start and will be completed;
   
   
   
   (f)	The original location and the destination of the household goods to be
   transported;
   
   
   
   (g)	The name, address and telephone number of the place of storage, if any,
   and the hours during which the stored goods can be inspected by the owner; and
   
   
   
   (h)	A statement as to whether the contractor maintains insurance coverage for
   the benefit of customers, insuring against loss of or damage to the
   customer&#8217;s household goods while the goods are in the contractor&#8217;s
   custody, and if so, the types and financial limitations of that insurance
   coverage.

   702.2. No contractor shall include in any moving contract required under this
   chapter any provision waiving or purporting to waive any provision of this
   chapter.

   702.3. Any waiver provision included in a contract in violation of ยง 702.2
   shall be void and of no effect.

   702.4. No contractor shall accept any payment for the transportation of
   household goods without promptly delivering to the owner a receipt for that
   payment, except for payments made by the owner&#8217;s personal check.

   702.5. No release of liability given by an owner to a contractor in connection
   with the transportation of household goods shall be effective until
   forty-eight (48) hours have elapsed following completion of delivery, and the
   owner has not, during that period, rescinded the release by written
   notification to the contractor postmarked prior to the expiration of the
   forty-eight (48) hour period.
