                                  DC REGULATIONS

REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS (ยง 16-701)

701.1. Each person required to be registered under ยง 700.1 shall furnish to
   the Director the registration information required on a form prescribed by the
   Director.

   701.2. The registration form shall require that the Director be provided with
   the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The contractor&#8217;s name, principal business address, and home address
   in the case of an individual;
   
   
   
   (b)	If the contractor is a corporation or partnership, the names and home
   addresses of all partners (or the president, vice-president and secretary of
   the corporation); and
   
   
   
   (c)	The name under which the business is being (or will be) conducted.

   701.3. No person whose registration has been suspended under ยง 705 shall be
   re-registered other than in accordance with the terms of the order of
   suspension, and no corporation or partnership shall be registered if there is
   then outstanding an order of suspension of the registration of an individual
   who is an officer of the corporation, or a partner in the partnership.

   701.4. After a registration has been submitted, the Director shall return a
   duplicate copy of the form to the registrant which shall be validated by the
   Director to evidence the registrant&#8217;s registration under this chapter.

   701.5. The validated form shall contain a registration number to be furnished
   by the Director.

   701.6. Each registrant shall maintain the validated duplicate copy of the
   registration form at the registrant&#8217;s main business location (or home,
   if the registrant has no business address), and shall display the registration
   form or a copy of it to any actual or potential customer, or the Director, on
   request.

   701.7. The contractor&#8217;s registration number shall be prominently
   displayed on each motor vehicle used by the registered contractor.
   
   
   
   	History of Regulations since Last Compilation by Agency (July 1998)
