                                  DC REGULATIONS

BLANKET PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (ยง 30-2505)

2505.1. A blanket purchase agreement (BPA) may be used, in accordance with the
   provisions of this chapter, as a simplified method of filling anticipated
   repetitive needs for supplies, services, or other items by establishing charge
   accounts with sources of supply.

   2505.2. A contracting officer may establish a BPA if one (1) or more of the
   following criteria apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	There is a wide variety of items in a broad class of goods that are
   generally purchased, but the exact items, quantities, and delivery
   requirements are not known in advance and may vary considerably;
   
   
   
   (b)	There is a need to provide commercial sources of supply for one (1) or
   more offices in an agency that do not otherwise have or need direct authority
   to purchase; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The administrative cost of writing numerous purchase orders can be avoided
   through the use of this procedure.

   2505.3. A BPA shall not be used for any commodity, service, or other item for
   which a requirements type contract has been issued by the Agency.

   2505.4. A BPA is not a contract and may be established without a purchase
   requisition or the obligation of funds.

   2505.5. To the extent practical, BPA&#8217;s for items of the same type shall
   be placed concurrently with more than one (1) supplier. All competitive
   sources shall be given an equal opportunity to furnish supplies, services, or
   other items under a BPA.

   2505.6. A BPA may be limited to furnishing individual items or commodity
   groups or classes, or it may be unlimited for all items or services that the
   source of supply is in a position to furnish, except as provided otherwise
   under this section.

   2505.7. The contracting officer shall not use a BPA to make purchases that are
   not otherwise authorized by law or this title and shall not purchase off a BPA
   to avoid the small purchase authority limitation or to justify procurement on
   a sole source basis.

   2505.8. When there is an insufficient number of vendors with BPA&#8217;s to
   ensure maximum practicable competition for a particular purchase, the
   contracting officer shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Solicit quotations from other sources and make the purchase as
   appropriate; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Establish additional BPA&#8217;s to facilitate future purchases when
   recurring requirements for the same or similar items or services seem likely,
   when qualified sources are willing to accept a or when it is otherwise
   practical to do so.

   2505.9. An individual BPA shall be considered terminated when the purchases
   under it equal its total dollar limitation or when its stated time period
   expires.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6772 (September 22, 1989).
