                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPETITIVE SMALL PURCHASES (ยง 30-2502)

2502.1. For each procurement in an amount over one thousand dollars ($1,000),
   the contracting officer shall solicit quotations from at least three (3)
   sources to promote competition to the maximum extent practicable and to ensure
   that the purchase is in the best interests of the Agency, considering quality,
   price, and other factors (including the administrative cost of the purchase).
   If practicable, two (2) sources not included in the previous solicitation for
   similar items shall be requested to furnish quotations.

   2502.2. If the contracting officer determines that it is impractical under the
   circumstances to solicit more than two (2) sources (due to time constraints,
   lack of available sources, or other factors set forth in ยง 2502.4), the
   contracting officer may solicit quotations from two (2) sources. In no
   instance shall the contracting officer solicit quotations from fewer than two
   (2) sources unless the provisions of ยง 2502.5 are followed.

   2502.3. If the contracting officer determines that the best interests of the
   Agency (or other factors set forth in ยง 2502.4) indicate that price
   quotations should be obtained from more than three (3) sources, the
   contracting officer may require the solicitation of additional quotations,

   2502.4. The contracting officer shall consider the following factors when
   deciding how many quotations will be solicited:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nature of the item or service to be purchased and whether it is highly
   competitive and readily available in several makes or brands, or if it is
   relatively noncompetitive;
   
   
   
   (b)	Information obtained in making recent purchases of the same or similar
   item;
   
   
   
   (c)	The urgency of the proposed purchase;
   
   
   
   (d)	The dollar value of the proposed purchase; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Past experience concerning specific contractors&#8217; prices

   2502.5. A small purchase procurement solicitation may only be limited to a
   sole source when the contracting officer determines, in writing, that one (1)
   of the following conditions is satisfied:
   
   
   
   (a)	There is only one (1) source for the required item or service; or
   
   
   
   (b)	An emergency condition exists which precludes the solicitation of multiple
   quotations.

   2502.6. A contracting officer may orally solicit quotations. However, a
   contracting officer shall use a written solicitation in the following
   circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	When a large number of line items is included in a single proposed
   procurement;
   
   
   
   (b)	When obtaining oral quotations is not considered economical or practical;
   
   
   
   (c)	When extensive specifications are involved; or
   
   
   
   (d)	When the suppliers are located outside the local trading area.

   2502.7. A contracting officer shall maximize competition for small purchases
   and shall not necessarily limit solicitations to suppliers of well known and
   widely distributed makes or brands, or solicit on a personal preference basis.

   2502.8. Each contracting officer shall maintain a small purchase source list
   (or lists, if more convenient). The list shall indicate whether the business
   is a certified minority business.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6770 (September 22, 1989).
