                                  DC REGULATIONS

BLANKET PURCHASE AGREEMENT PROCEDURES (ยง 30-2506)

2506.1. The contracting officer shall prepare and issue a blanket purchase
   agreement (BPA) on a BPA form approved by the Director.

   2506.2. The contracting officer shall include the following information in
   each BPA:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement that the supplier will furnish supplies or services, described
   in general terms, if and when requested by the contracting officer during a
   specified period and within a stipulated total amount;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement that the Agency is obligated only to the extent that
   authorized purchases are actually made under the BPA;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement that the prices to the Agency shall be as low or lower than
   those charged to the supplier&#8217;s most favored customer for comparable
   quantities under similar terms and conditions, in addition to any discounts
   for prompt payment; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement that specifies the dollar limitation for purchases under the
   BPA (not to exceed the small purchase limitations set forth in this chapter).

   2506.3. The contracting officer shall furnish to each supplier a list of names
   of individuals authorized to purchase under the BPA, identified by
   organizational component, and the dollar limitation per purchase for each
   individual.

   2506.4. A BPA shall contain a requirement that deliveries or shipments under
   the agreement (except subscriptions or other charges for newspapers,
   magazines, or periodicals) shall be accompanied by delivery tickets or sales
   slips which contain the following minimum information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the supplier;
   
   
   
   (b)	The BPA number;
   
   
   
   (c)	The date of purchase;
   
   
   
   (d)	The purchase order number;
   
   
   
   (e)	An itemized list of supplies or services furnished;
   
   
   
   (f)	The quantity, unit price, and extension of each item, less applicable
   discounts; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The date of delivery or shipment.

   2506.5. A BPA shall require that one (1) of the following procedures be
   followed:
   
   
   
   (a)	That a vendor submit to a contracting officer a summary invoice at least
   monthly or upon expiration of the BPA, whichever occurs first, for all
   deliveries made during a billing period, identifying the delivery tickets;
   
   
   
   (b)	That the vendor submit to the contracting officer an itemized invoice at
   least monthly or upon expiration of the BPA, whichever occurs first, for all
   deliveries made during a billing period and for which payment has not been
   received. These invoices need not be supported by copies of delivery tickets;
   or
   
   
   
   (c)	That an invoice submitted by the vendor to the contracting officer for
   subscriptions or other charges for newspapers, magazines, or other
   periodicals, show the starting and ending dates and state either that ordered
   subscriptions have been placed in effect or will be placed in effect upon
   receipt of payment.

   2506.6. Each order placed against a BPA shall be recorded on a BPA order form
   which shall include a discreet BPA order number, accounting data identifying
   the source of funds, the items or services ordered, the name of the person
   placing the order, the date of the order, and other information required by
   the Director.

   2506.7. Purchases against a BPA may be made orally; Provided, that each order
   shall be documented on a BPA order form. After making an oral purchase, the
   contracting officer may send a copy of the BPA order form to the contractor to
   ensure that the contractor and the contracting officer agree concerning the
   transaction.

   2506.8. The contracting officer executing a BPA shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Maintain adequate records to ensure that the total dollar volume of orders
   does not exceed the stated total aggregate amount;
   
   
   
   (b)	Ensure that only authorized individuals are placing purchases against a
   BPA; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Maintain awareness of changes in market conditions, sources of supply, and
   other pertinent factors that may warrant new arrangements with different
   suppliers or the modification of existing arrangements.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6774 (September 22, 1989).
