                                  DC REGULATIONS

CORRECTIVE ACTION PLAN AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION (§ 20-6207)

6207.1. At any point after a release is confirmed, the Director may require
   the responsible party to develop and submit a corrective action plan (CAP) for
   remediating chemicals of concern in soil and ground water. The CAP shall be
   submitted according to a schedule and format established by the Director. A
   responsible party may, after fulfilling the requirements of §§ 6203.9
   through 6206 of this chapter, voluntarily submit a CAP for responding to
   contaminated soil and ground water.

   6207.2. The responsible party shall submit a plan that provides for adequate
   protection of human health in accordance with section 6206.4(c) (maximum
   tolerable human health risks) and the environment, as determined by the
   Director, and shall modify the corrective action plan as necessary to meet
   this standard.

   6207.3. A CAP shall propose a corrective action option for the site that will:
   
   
   
   (a)	Perform active or passive remediation at the site within a reasonable
   period of time to achieve the criteria stated in §§ 6203.9(a), 6203.13 and
   6204.1;
   
   
   
   (b)	Ensure that measurable non-aqueous phase liquids will not exist or are no
   longer recoverable at the site; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide appropriate measures to protect those environmentally sensitive
   receptors that were identified in the comprehensive site assessment;
   
   
   
   (d)	Remediate the site to one (1) of the following standards:
   
   
   
   (1)	Achieve the Tier 1 risk-based screening levels set forth in §§ 6209;
   
   
   
   (2)	Achieve Tier 2 site-specific target levels (SSTLs) approved by the
   Director; or
   
   
   
   (3)	Where the Responsible Party has elected to perform a Tier 2 evaluation the
   CAP shall:
   
   
   
   i.	Reduce levels of chemicals of concern to achieve the Tier 2 SSTLs approved
   by the Director;
   
   
   
   ii.	If applicable, provide for engineering and/or institutional controls
   acceptable to the Director; and/or
   
   
   
   iii.	Provide for monitoring of the site over a specified period of time to
   provide technically based assurances that the chemicals of concern on the site
   will not adversely impact human health, safety or the environment under
   present, or reasonably foreseeable future uses of the site.

   6207.4. A CAP shall provide for proper disposal of the contaminated soils
   removed from the ground, and shall not permit the placement of contaminated
   soils that exceed Tier 0 standards back into the ground for the purposes of in
   situ remediation or storage, unless specifically agreed to by the Director.

   6207.5. A site-specific Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) Plan for the
   activities to be carried out during implementation of the CAP must be prepared
   prior to the implementation of any site activities. The QA/QC Plan shall cover
   all actions proposed in the CAP, and shall comply with any Departmental
   guidelines.

   6207.6. A site-specific Health and Safety Plan, that addresses all applicable
   federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations shall
   be prepared in conjunction with the corrective action plan.

   6207.7. Within sixty (60) days after receipt of a CAP, the Director shall
   approve or disapprove each CAP. Approval shall be given to a plan only after
   the Director determines, to his or her satisfaction, that implementation of
   the CAP will adequately protect human health, safety, and the environment. In
   making this determination, the Director may consider the following factors, as
   appropriate:
   
   
   
   (a)	The physical and chemical characteristics of the regulated substance,
   including its toxicity, persistence, and potential for migration;
   
   
   
   (b)	The hydrogeologic characteristics of the facility and the surrounding
   area;
   
   
   
   (c)	The proximity, quality, and current and reasonably foreseeable future uses
   of nearby surface water and ground-water;
   
   
   
   (d)	The potential effects of residual chemicals of concern on nearby surface
   water (creeks, ponds, lakes and rivers) and ground water;
   
   
   
   (e)	Potential risk to human health or the environment based upon current and
   reasonably foreseeable future uses of the site;
   
   
   
   (f)	The estimated timetable for completion of the remediation; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Any information assembled in compliance with this chapter.

   6207.8. The Director&#8217;s approval may contain a determination whether the
   proposed corrective action is an active or passive corrective action. Passive
   corrective action may include the following technologies:
   
   
   
   (a)	Monitoring of natural attenuation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Non-pressurized positive or negative subsurface venting;
   
   
   
   (c)	Injection of biological or chemical agents designed to enhance attenuation
   of subsurface contamination; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any other alternative procedure on a case-by-case basis, as determined by
   the Director.

   6207.9. If such action will minimize environmental contamination and promote
   more effective corrective action, the responsible party may begin remediation
   of soil and ground-water before the formal corrective action plan is approved;
   provided, that the responsible party:
   
   
   
   (a)	Notifies the Director and the impacted party(ies) of his or her intention
   to begin remediation, obtains a provisional acceptance letter from the
   Director and provides the Director with an opportunity to inspect the site
   during the corrective action.
   
   
   
   (b)	Complies with any conditions imposed by the Director, including halting
   remediation or mitigating adverse consequences from clean-up activities; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Incorporates these self-initiated remediation measures in the corrective
   action plan (CAP) that is submitted to the Director for approval.

   6207.10. A responsible party may submit a written request for waiver of the
   Director&#8217;s approval of the CAP and begin implementation of the CAP,
   provided, that the responsible party:
   
   
   
   (a)	Has satisfactorily performed another corrective action under the
   District&#8217;s Underground Storage Tank Division oversight, within the three
   (3) years immediately preceding the current request for a waiver of CAP
   approval;
   
   
   
   (d)	Notifies the Director of his or her intention to begin remediation and
   provides the Director with an opportunity to inspect the site during the
   corrective action; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Complies with any conditions imposed by the Director, including halting
   remediation or mitigating adverse consequences from clean-up activities.

   6207.11. Except as provided in §§ 6207.9 and 6207.10, after approval of the
   corrective action plan, the responsible party shall begin implementation of
   the plan as approved, including modifications to the plan made by the
   Director, within thirty (30) days, or in accordance with a schedule agreed to
   by the Director.

   6207.12. Except as provided in §§ 6207.9 and 6207.10, the responsible party
   shall provide the Director with an opportunity to inspect the site prior to
   implementation of the plan.

   6207.13. The responsible party shall monitor, evaluate, and report the results
   of implementing the plan in a format established by the Director, at least
   quarterly, or in accordance with a time schedule approved by the Director.

   6207.14. The responsible party may apply to the Director for modifications of
   the CAP. The responsible party shall not implement any modifications until
   approved by the Director.

   6207.15. If the Director determines that the implemented corrective actions
   are not achieving adequate protection of human health and the environment, the
   Director may require additional responses to be taken.

   6207.16. The responsible party and the Director shall evaluate the
   effectiveness of each corrective action plan or amendment to the plan at the
   end of one (1) year of implementation of the plan or amendment to determine
   whether additional measures must be implemented to protect human health and
   the environment.

   6207.17. The Director may, on a case-by-case basis, approve an alternative
   procedure for remediation of petroleum contaminants from the past releases
   provided that the responsible party submits a written description of the
   alternative procedure to the Director and demonstrates to the satisfaction of
   the Director that compliance with the prescribed procedures is not practical
   or not feasible, or that the proposed alternative provides equivalent control
   of petroleum cleanups.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7835, 7890 (November 12, 1993);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999).
