                                  DC REGULATIONS

VOLUNTARY REMEDIATION ACTION PROGRAM (VRAP) (§ 20-6213)

6213.1. The Director may permit a person, other than an owner, operator or
   responsible party to remediate leaking underground storage tanks (LUST)
   facilities or sites in accordance with the provisions of this Subtitle
   provided that the person:
   
   
   
   (a)	Intends to develop a LUST facility or site for personal or business
   reasons;
   
   
   
   (b)	Intends to conduct a phased investigation of a LUST facility or site
   conditions prior to acquisition or development of a LUST facility or site; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Is a neighboring property owner who is unable to obtain relief from the
   responsible party.

   6213.2. Persons who wish to voluntarily remediate LUST facilities or sites
   shall submit an application to the Director that contains the following
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Proof that the applicant satisfies § 6213.1(a), (b) or (c);
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement of interest in undertaking corrective action at a facility or
   site;
   
   
   
   (c)	Agreement to follow any directives issued by, or agreements reached with,
   the Director pertaining to preliminary investigation prior to remediation;
   remediation of the facility or site; and to be liable for satisfactorily
   completing all corrective actions pursuant to the applicable provisions of
   Chapters 61 and 62;
   
   
   
   (d)	Financial responsibility to satisfactorily complete the remediation; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A copy of a written access agreement or any other agreement, which permits
   access to the facility, site or the property.

   6213.3. Upon receiving a Voluntary Remediation Action Request, the Director
   shall evaluate the request and may, in his or her discretion, approve or deny
   the request. If approved, the Director shall issue a &#8220;Voluntary
   Remediation Action Program Letter&#8221; which shall authorize the Voluntary
   Remediating Party (VRP) to begin the remediation process.

   6213.4. The Voluntary Remediating Party, may at his or her discretion, enter
   into an agreement to release the responsible party(ies) from liability. A
   Voluntary Remediating Party who wishes to assume responsible party status
   shall submit a Responsible Party Transfer Request to the Director. A release
   granted to a responsible party shall provide that the release may be voided by
   the Director under the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	The responsible party or the Voluntary Remediating Party submitted false
   or misleading information to the Director in the Responsible Party Transfer
   Request;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Voluntary Remediating Party fails to complete the agreed upon
   corrective action and the Department or the United States Environmental
   Protection Agency expends funds to remediate the facility or site.

   6213.5. A Voluntary Remediating Party shall be liable for all work performed
   at the facility or site and shall only be required to perform the work agreed
   upon with the Director.

   6213.6. A Voluntary Remediating Party (VRP), as described in §§ 6213.2(b) or
   (c), other than a VRP who has released the original responsible party and
   assumed Responsible Party status in accordance with § 6213.4, may cease
   corrective action activities at the facility or site prior to complete
   remediation of the facility or site and incur no liability, other than
   liability pursuant to § 6213.5 provided the Voluntary Remediating Party:
   
   
   
   (a)	Has not aggravated the site conditions or increased the costs of
   subsequent corrective action;
   
   
   
   (b)	Gives written notice to the Director of the Voluntary Remediating
   Party&#8217;s intention to cease activities at the facility or site; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Stabilizes the facility or site by properly backfilling any excavations,
   properly securing or abandoning any monitoring wells; and takes any other
   actions required to secure the facility or site as determined by the Director.

   6213.7. After completing remediation in accordance with the requirements of
   Chapter 62 a Voluntary Remediating Party may submit a written request for a
   no-further-action or a case closure letter as set forth in § 6211. Upon the
   Director&#8217;s approval, a Case Closure or a No-Further-Action letter, as
   appropriate, shall be issued to the responsible party with a copy to the
   Voluntary Remediating Party or to a Voluntary Remediating Party who has
   assumed responsible party status.

   6213.8. The Director may issue the following types of letters under the
   circumstances described in this section:
   
   
   
   (a)	A &#8220;Responsible Party Transfer Letter&#8221; which shall authorize a
   Voluntary Remediating Party to take corrective action in place of the
   responsible party and, at the request of the Voluntary Remediating Party, may
   release the responsible party from liability subject to the conditions in
   subsection 6213.5.
   
   
   
   (b)	An &#8220;Innocent Neighboring Property Owner Letter&#8221; informing an
   innocent neighboring property owner that he or she may proceed to take
   corrective action under the direction of the Department without incurring
   responsible party liability.
   
   
   
   (c)	A &#8220;Site Condition Letter&#8221; that informs an interested party of
   the present regulatory status of a particular LUST site or a neighboring
   property.
   
   
   
   (d)	A &#8220;No Further Action&#8221; or a &#8220;Case Closure Letter&#8221;
   upon compliance with the requirements of § 6211.

   6213.9. The Director may rescind any letter that is obtained through fraud or
   misrepresentation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7835, 7896 (November 12, 1993);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999).
