                                  DC REGULATIONS

NO FURTHER ACTION AND CASE CLOSURE REQUIREMENTS (§ 20-6211)

6211.1. A responsible party, who wishes to secure a No-Further-Action (NFA)
   letter or a case closure determination, shall submit a written request for a
   No-Further-Action letter or case closure determination to the Director. The
   responsible party or an authorized representative shall sign the request. The
   request shall include a summary of major events and accomplishments during the
   site investigation and/or remediation process, including to the extent
   possible, but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The cause of the release if known;
   
   
   
   (d)	The estimated amount and type of product released;
   
   
   
   (e)	The estimated amount of product recovered;
   
   
   
   (f)	An analysis that demonstrates that the site has met the objectives for
   clean-up or the objectives agreed upon by the Director; and
   
   
   
   (g)	All documents (permits, certificates, approvals, etc.) relating to the
   transportation and disposal of wastes from the site (i.e. tanks, soils,
   product, water), unless previously submitted to the Director, the UST Division
   or another division of the Department of Health; and if previously submitted,
   a list containing the names of the documents, dates of submission and name of
   the division.

   6211.2. All records or reports documenting the transport and disposal of any
   free product, contaminated water and soil, or other waste that is generated at
   the site while the corrective action plan is being performed, shall be
   maintained by the owner, operator or a responsible party for a period of at
   least three (3) years from the date of issuance of no further action or case
   closure letter.

   6211.3. Prior to approving a request for no further action or case closure,
   the Director shall be satisfied of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	If applicable, that all CAP objectives have been met;
   
   
   
   (b)	That all free product has been removed to the maximum extent practicable;
   
   
   
   (c)	That the site does not pose a threat to human health or the environment;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	If applicable, that Tier 1 or Tier 2 levels have been met.

   6211.4. The Director shall review each request for case closure completed in
   accordance with this section. If the Director is satisfied that the
   requirements for case closure set forth in §§ 6211.1 through 6211.3 have
   been met, the Director shall issue case closure letter. The closure approval
   shall not absolve the owner, operator or a responsible party from previously
   incurred or potential future liability.

   6211.5. The Director shall review each request for no further action in
   accordance with this section. If the Director is satisfied that all of the
   corrective actions required by the Director in accordance with the applicable
   provisions of this Subtitle have been met, the Director shall issue a
   No-Further-Action letter. A no-further-action letter shall not absolve the
   owner, operator or a responsible party from previously incurred or potential
   future liability.

   6211.6. In the event the Director denies the request for no further action or
   case closure, the Director shall provide the responsible party a written
   notice of denial which states the basis for the denial and informs the
   responsible party of the procedures to appeal the denial.

   6211.7. Upon receiving notice from the Director that the no further action or
   the case closure requirements have been met, the owner, operator or a
   responsible party shall, as applicable, remove all equipment, and ensure that
   all wells are properly abandoned, unless otherwise authorized by the Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7835, 7896 (November 12, 1993);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999).
