                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPORTING OF RELEASES OF REGULATED SUBSTANCES (§ 20-6202)

6202.1. Any owner, operator or responsible party who has reason to suspect a
   release from an underground storage tank, as defined in chapter 55, shall
   notify the Director within twenty-four (24) hours.

   6202.2. Any authorized agent of a responsible party who knows of a release or
   has reason to suspect a release from an UST shall notify the owner or operator
   of the UST system immediately and the Director within 24 hours.

   6202.3. Any authorized agent of a responsible party; any person who tests,
   installs, or removes tanks; any person who engages in site investigation,
   assessment, remediation, or geotechnical exploration; or any public utility
   company or authorized agent of a public utility company who knows of, or has
   reason to know of a release, or has reason to suspect a release from an
   underground storage tank shall inform the owner or operator immediately and
   shall notify the Director within twenty-four (24) hours of first having
   knowledge of the suspected release or release.

   6202.4. The notification of a release or suspected release may be provided
   orally or in writing, and shall consist of, if known, the name of the owner,
   operator and any other responsible party, as well as the location, date, time,
   volume, and substance of the release or suspected release. The notification
   shall include, if known, any immediate and ongoing action taken to mitigate
   the release, any subsequent hazardous conditions caused by the release, and an
   evaluation of any potential environmental hazard evident by the condition or
   disposition of the tank.

   6202.5. A responsible party shall not knowingly allow any release from an UST
   system to continue.

   6202.6. Owners and operators of UST systems must report to the Director within
   24 hours, or another reasonable time period specified by the Director, and
   follow the procedures in § 6203 for any of the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	The discovery by owners and operators or others of released regulated
   substances at the UST site or in the surrounding area (such as the presence of
   free product or vapors in soils, basements, sewer and utility lines, and
   nearby surface water);
   
   
   
   (b)	Unusual operating conditions observed by owners and operators (such as the
   erratic behavior of product dispensing equipment, the sudden loss of product
   from the UST system, or an unexplained presence of water in the tank), unless
   system equipment is found to be defective but not leaking, and is immediately
   repaired or replaced; and;
   
   
   
   (c)	Monitoring results from a release detection method required under §§
   6002 through 6012 that indicate a release may have occurred unless:
   
   
   
   (1)	The monitoring device is found to be defective, and is immediately
   repaired, recalibrated or replaced, and additional monitoring does not confirm
   the initial result; or
   
   
   
   (2)	In the case of inventory control, a tank tightness test conducted within
   seven (7) days does not confirm the initial result.

   6202.7. A responsible party shall immediately investigate, conduct initial
   abatement if necessary, and within seven (7) days of the suspected release
   confirm to the Director that a release has occurred using the procedures set
   forth in this chapter.

   6202.8. If the Director has reason to believe a release or off-site
   contamination due to a release has occurred, the Director may require the
   owner or operator of the UST system to follow the procedures set forth in
   section §§ 6202.7 and 6203.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7835, 7885 (November 12, 1993);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999).
