                                  DC REGULATIONS

SITE INVESTIGATION, CONFIRMATION OF RELEASES, INITIAL ABATEMENT AND INITIAL SITE
ASSESSMENT (§ 20-6203)

6203.1. When a release is suspected, a responsible party shall conduct systems
   tests, in accordance with the requirements for tightness testing set forth in
   §§ 6007 and 6013.3 of this Subtitle, to determine whether a release exists
   in the portion of the tank that routinely contains a regulated substance, or
   the attached delivery piping, or both.

   6203.2. A responsible party shall repair, replace, or upgrade the UST system,
   and begin corrective action in accordance with the applicable provisions of
   §§ 6203.9 through 6212 of this chapter if the test results indicate that a
   release has occurred. Prior to completion of the necessary corrective actions,
   the UST system may be placed in service once the source of the release has
   been identified and corrected.

   6203.3. A responsible party shall also conduct a site investigation, as set
   forth in §§ 6203.4 through 6203.6, if:
   
   
   
   (a)	The test results for the system, tank, or delivery piping indicate that a
   release exists; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The test results for the system, tank, and delivery piping do not indicate
   that a release exists, but environmental contamination detected by visual or
   analytical data is the basis for suspecting a release.

   6203.4. The responsible party shall test for the presence of a release where
   contamination is most likely to be present at the UST site.

   6203.5. In selecting sample types, sample locations, and measurement methods,
   the responsible party shall consider the nature of the stored substance, the
   type of initial alarm or cause for suspicion, the type of backfill, the depth
   of ground water, presence of a basement sump pump and other factors
   appropriate for identifying the presence of released substance and source of
   the release. Sample types, sample locations and measurement methods shall also
   comply with Departmental directives and protocols made available by the UST
   Division.

   6203.6. If the sample results do not confirm that a release has occurred, no
   further investigation shall be required.

   6203.7. Upon confirmation of a release, a responsible party shall perform the
   following initial response actions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Immediately identify and mitigate any fire, explosion, and vapor hazards;
   
   
   
   (b)	Take immediate action to prevent any further release of the regulated
   substance into the environment; and
   
   
   
   (c)	When confirmation occurs during the seven (7) day investigation period,
   the responsible party shall notify the Director and the Fire Chief no later
   than twenty-four (24) hours after confirmation of the release. The report may
   be made by telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or hand delivery. A voice
   mail message shall not be considered telephone notification. An original
   letter or memorandum signed by the responsible party, or an authorized
   representative, shall be submitted to the Director within seven (7) days of
   confirmation of the release.

   6203.8. Section 6203.7 shall not apply to any UST system excluded under §§
   5501.3(a) through (f), or any UST system subject to the Subtitle C corrective
   action requirements under § 3004(u) of the Resource Conservation and Recovery
   Act (RCRA), as amended.

   6203.9. A responsible party shall take the following initial abatement
   actions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Remove all regulated substance from the UST system, unless the Director
   approves removal of a lesser amount that is sufficient to prevent further
   release to the environment. Fulfillment of the requirements of this section is
   a pre-requisite to the use of risk-based decisionmaking to develop a
   risk-based corrective action (RBCA) plan pursuant to § 6206.
   
   
   
   (b)	Visually inspect any aboveground releases or exposed belowground releases
   and prevent further migration of the released substance into surrounding soils
   and ground water.
   
   
   
   (c)	Continue to monitor and mitigate any additional fire and safety hazards
   posed by vapors or free product that have migrated from the UST site and
   entered into subsurface structures (such as sewers or basements).

   6203.10. A responsible party shall remedy hazards posed by contaminated soils
   that are excavated or exposed as a result of release confirmation, site
   investigation, abatement, or corrective action activities. If these remedies
   include treatment or disposal of soils, the responsible party shall comply
   with all applicable provisions of District of Columbia laws and regulations,
   including regulations pertaining to the management of solid waste (21 DCMR
   Chapters 7, 8 and 20).

   6203.11. A responsible party shall conduct an Initial Site Assessment that
   will evaluate on-site conditions (i.e. limited to the area within the property
   boundaries). In preparing the Initial Site Assessment, a responsible party
   shall comply with any applicable protocols made available by the UST Division
   and/or take the following actions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Unless the presence and source of the release have been confirmed
   previously in accordance with the site investigation required by § 6203.3 or
   the closure site assessment of § 6101.9, test for the presence of a regulated
   substance by taking soil borings and by installing monitoring wells where
   contamination is most likely to be present at the UST site. Analyze the levels
   of contaminants in the soil borings and groundwater samples. In selecting
   sample types, sample locations, and measurement methods, the owner or operator
   shall consider the nature of the stored substance, the type of backfill, depth
   to ground water and other factors as appropriate for identifying the presence
   and source of the release.
   
   
   
   (b)	Summarize the initial response actions taken pursuant to § 6204.
   
   
   
   (c)	Summarize the initial abatement actions taken pursuant to this chapter.

   6203.12. A responsible party shall determine whether free product is present.
   If any phase of the site investigation determines that free product is
   present, the responsible party shall begin free product removal as soon as
   practicable in accordance with § 6204 of this chapter.

   6203.13. A responsible party shall achieve the upper concentration limits
   (UCL) for benzene in groundwater, as set by the Director in § 6210.
   Fulfillment of the requirements of this section is a pre-requisite to the use
   of risk-based decisionmaking to develop a risk-based corrective action (RBCA)
   plan pursuant to § 6206.

   6203.14. Within sixty (60) days after release confirmation, a responsible
   party shall submit to the Director an Initial Site Assessment report for
   review, and if applicable, include the first monthly status report on the
   removal of free product. A responsible party shall submit a workplan for
   future site activities for the Director&#8217;s information. A responsible
   party may request a meeting with the Director to discuss the workplan.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7835, 7886 (November 12, 1993);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999).
