                                  DC REGULATIONS

REMOVAL OF FREE PRODUCT (§ 20-6204)

6204.1. At sites where investigations under § 6203.12 indicate the presence
   of any free product, the responsible party shall remove measurable free
   product to the maximum extent practicable as determined by the Director, in
   accordance with a schedule determined or approved by the Director on a case
   by-case basis, while continuing, as necessary, any actions initiated under
   §§ 6203 through 6205, or preparing for actions required under § 6206.
   Fulfillment of the requirements of this section is a pre-requisite to the use
   of risk-based decisionmaking to develop a risk-based corrective action (RBCA)
   plan pursuant to § 6206.

   6204.2. The responsible party shall conduct the removal of free product in a
   manner that minimizes the spread of contamination into previously
   uncontaminated zones by using recovery techniques appropriate to the
   hydrogeologic conditions at the site.

   6204.3. The responsible party shall conduct the recovery and disposal of free
   product in a manner that properly treats, discharges, recycles or disposes of
   recovery byproducts in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.

   6204.4. The minimum objective for the design of the free product removal
   system shall be the abatement of free product migration.

   6204.5. The responsible party shall ensure that any flammable substances are
   handled in a manner that will prevent fire and explosion.

   6204.6. Unless directed to do otherwise by the Director, the responsible party
   shall prepare and submit to the Director, commencing forty-five (45) days
   after release confirmation and quarterly thereafter, a status report on the
   removal of any free product, in the format prescribed by the Director, that
   provides at least the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the person(s) responsible for implementing the free product
   removal measures;
   
   
   
   (b)	The estimated quantity, type, and thickness of free product observed or
   measured in wells, boreholes, and excavations;
   
   
   
   (c)	The type of free product recovery system used;
   
   
   
   (d)	Whether any groundwater discharge will take place on-site or off-site
   during the recovery operation and where this discharge point will be located;
   
   
   
   (e)	The type of treatment applied to, and the effluent quality expected from,
   any such discharge;
   
   
   
   (f)	The steps that have been or are being taken to obtain necessary permits
   for any discharge; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The disposition of the recovered free product.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7835, 7887 (November 12, 1993);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999).
