                                  DC REGULATIONS

RISK-BASED CORRECTIVE ACTION (RBCA) PROGRAM (§ 20-6206)

6206.1. Risk-based decision-making (RBDM) and development of a risk-based
   corrective action (RBCA) plan shall be conducted subject to the terms and
   conditions set forth in this section and/or as further explained in applicable
   UST Division protocols and the Risk-Based Decisionmaking Technical Guidance
   Document.

   6206.2. Before initiating a risk-based decision-making process to develop a
   risk-based corrective action plan for petroleum releases, a responsible party
   shall comply with §§ 6203 and 6204 as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Prevent further release from the UST system by removal of all or a lesser
   amount of the petroleum products from the UST system and/or perform repairs to
   the UST system;
   
   
   
   (b)	Remove measurable free product to the maximum extent practicable;
   
   
   
   (c)	Achieve the upper concentration limit (UCL) for benzene in groundwater as
   specified in § 6210.

   6206.3. The following sequence of actions comprises the District&#8217;s RBCA
   process:
   
   
   
   (a)	Perform an Initial Site Assessment, including identification of potential
   exposure pathways, take response action(s) as set forth in § 6203 and submit
   a work plan;
   
   
   
   (b)	Complete site classification as defined in Chapter 70;
   
   
   
   (c)	Complete Tier 1 site assessment pursuant to the comprehensive site
   assessment provisions set forth in § 6205 and as further described in the
   Risk-Based Decisionmaking Technical Guidance Document;
   
   
   
   (d)	Compare the concentrations of Chemicals of Concern with Tier 1 risk-based
   screening levels provided in § 6209;
   
   
   
   (e)	If the concentrations exceed Tier 1 screening levels, develop and
   implement corrective action plan (CAP) to achieve Tier 1 levels or proceed to
   perform Tier 2 site-specific evaluation as described in the Risk-Based
   Decisionmaking Technical Guidance Document;
   
   
   
   (f)	Collect additional site-specific information, as necessary for development
   of Tier 2 site-specific target levels, perform fate and transport analysis,
   including modeling, to determine points of compliance; apply for and obtain
   variances for soil or water quality standards if necessary; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Develop and implement a corrective action plan (CAP) to achieve the site
   specific target levels or monitor for compliance.

   6206.4. For purposes of risk-based corrective action (RBCA) in the District of
   Columbia:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Chemicals of Concern (COC) shall include the following petroleum
   products or by-products:
   
   
   
   (1)	For gasoline: benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylenes (BTEX); Methyl
   tertiary-Butyl-Ether (MtBE); and gasoline range organics (GRO).
   
   
   
   (2)	For light distillate oils including kerosene, Jet A and JP #s 4, 7 and 8,
   Naphthalene and diesel range organics (DRO).
   
   
   
   (3)	For diesel, heating fuels and used oils: DRO and Naphthalene;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Point of Compliance (POC) shall be:
   
   
   
   (1)	For Tier 1 assessment:
   
   
   
   (a)	At the point of release or in the source area;
   
   
   
   (b)	Groundwater, affected by the contaminant plume including any areas of the
   plume that are outside of the property boundary in accordance with UST
   Division protocols and the Risk-Based Decisionmaking Technical Guidance
   Document; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Soil, throughout the area of the soil contaminated by the release and
   within the property boundary.
   
   
   
   (2)	For Tier 2 assessment, the point between the source and the potential
   point of exposure as approved by the Director.
   
   
   
   (c)	For residential development of property, the maximum tolerable human
   health risk for carcinogens shall be one-in-a-million cancer risk level (that
   is, the criteria represent a one-in-a-million estimated incremental increase
   in cancer risk over a lifetime). For non-carcinogenic health affects, the
   hazard quotient and hazard index shall be no greater than &#8220;1&#8243;.
   
   
   
   (d)	The Tier 0 standards and the Tier 1 standards shall be as set forth in
   §§ 6208 and 6209, respectively.
   
   
   
   (e)	The exposure routes shall include ingestion of groundwater or soil; dermal
   contact with surface water or soil; and inhalation of volatiles.
   
   
   
   (f)	For exposure pathways, points of exposure shall include groundwater,
   surface water, and soil; and transport media shall include leaching to
   groundwater and soil gas migration into buildings.

   6206.5. The Risk-Based Decisionmaking Technical Guidance Document shall
   include or address existing and new UST Division protocols, specific
   procedures including Tier 0, Tier 1 and Tier 2 RBCA assessment and evaluation
   procedures, Chemicals of Concern, upper concentration limit criteria, analysis
   procedures including use of modeling, equations, sampling, corrective action
   procedures and monitoring requirements for implementation of risk-based
   corrective action and other explanatory information in accordance with the
   minimum requirements of this section no later than one (1) year after the
   effective date of these regulations. UST Division protocols shall continue to
   provide guidance until the issue of the Risk-Based Decisionmaking Technical
   Guidance Document.

   6206.6. If levels of chemicals of concern exceed the Tier 1 standards set
   forth in § 6209, the responsible party may:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit a CAP pursuant to § 6207 to achieve the Tier 1 levels; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Conduct a Tier 2 site specific evaluation following the procedures and
   protocols for Tier 2 evaluations contained in the Risk-Based Decisionmaking
   Technical Guidance Document; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Comply with the provisions of § 6206.2.

   6206.7. After completion of the RBCA process, the responsible party may apply
   for a no-further-action or case closure, as appropriate, pursuant to the
   requirements of § 6211.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7835, 7889 (November 12, 1993);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999).
