                                  DC REGULATIONS

TERMS, CONDITIONS, RIGHTS, AND PRIVILEGES OF EMPLOYMENT (§ 4-506)

506.1. An employee is entitled to equal treatment in all those aspects of
   employment protected under Title I of the Act.  The following are examples of
   terms, conditions, rights, and privileges:
   
   
   
   (a)	Rotation of shifts;
   
   
   
   (b)	Dress and appearance;
   
   
   
   (c)	Use of company facilities;
   
   
   
   (d)	Trial periods on jobs;
   
   
   
   (e)	Hours of work;
   
   
   
   (f)	Office sponsored or endorsed social functions;
   
   
   
   (g)	Rest or lunch periods and other breaks; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Leaves-of-absence, vacations, other benefits.

   506.2. A discriminatory practice shall include, but is not limited to, any
   practice or policy used by an employer to distinguish, set apart, or show a
   difference in treatment or which operates to the disadvantage of a protected
   group without a valid business necessity.

   506.3. It shall be a discriminatory practice to require employees to use only
   the English language while on the employer’s premises.

   506.4. It shall be viewed as a discriminatory practice to allow employees of
   one class to be addressed only by the titles of “Mr.,” “Mrs.,”
   “Miss,” or “Ms.” while allowing employees of another class to be
   addressed by their first names.

   506.5. An employer shall be responsible for the discriminatory actions of its
   supervisory personnel. An employer shall also be responsible for the
   discriminatory actions of its other employees of which it knew or should have
   known.

   506.6. Codes for dress and appearance shall be applied equally to all
   employees performing the same kind of work. Any restriction or limitation on
   dress or appearance shall be a result of a reasonable business purpose. In the
   absence of a reasonable business purpose, an employer shall not refuse to
   allow an employee to wear a hair or dress style symbolic of national origin,
   religion, or race.

   506.7. All facilities shall be available to all employees on a
   non-discriminatory basis. This includes lunchrooms, snackbars, recreation
   areas, and off-site facilities provided by an employer, such as employee
   social clubs, health clubs, swimming pools, etc. Locker rooms, restrooms, and
   shower rooms may be lawfully segregated based on sex.

   506.8. It shall be a discriminatory practice for an employer to seek to evade
   responsibility for discrimination by transferring the use or control of
   facilities to employees or employee groups.

   506.9. It shall be the responsibility of the employer to use all reasonable
   means to assure the full and equal participation of a member of a protected
   class in a work unit in which members of that protected class were not
   previously employed.

   506.10. Employers shall secure all personnel files and other documents which
   contain information which is susceptible to use for a discriminatory purpose
   and shall allow access to the files only on a “need to know” basis.

   506.11. Post-hiring inquiries shall not be used for discriminatory purposes.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 006029 (July 31, 2009).
