                                  DC REGULATIONS

PREHIRE INQUIRIES (§ 4-503)

503.1. All aspects of prehire inquiries shall be free of discrimination on the
   basis of grounds protected by Title I of the Act.  The term “prehire
   inquiries” includes questions asked on application forms, questions asked in
   employee interviews, or any other kind of inquiries before selection,
   including medical examinations.

   503.2. The absence of any reasonable explanation for questions that identify
   an applicant’s membership in a protected class may be viewed as evidence of
   discrimination since the inquiries have nothing to do with job performance.

   503.3. Inquiries necessary for compliance with affirmative action requirements
   of the federal or District of Columbia governments, or when taking remedial
   action to correct the effects of past discrimination, or when taking voluntary
   action to overcome the effects of conditions that resulted in limited
   employment opportunities for a protected group, are legal, in accordance with
   D.C. Official Code § 2-1402.53(a).

   503.4. Inquiries as to age shall be limited to whether an applicant is between
   eighteen (18) and sixty-five (65) years of age, unless otherwise provided by
   law. No applicants shall be required to provide evidence of age or date of
   birth except in circumstances in which age is a business necessity.

   503.5. An employer shall not require information of a member of one class
   which he or she would not require of a member of another class. For example,
   an employer shall not ask an older applicant questions regarding health, if
   the employer does not question younger applicants in the same way.

   503.6. Pre-employment medical inquiries, or inquiries as to whether an
   applicant is disabled or to the severity of the disability, shall not be
   allowed except as provided in § 513.

   503.7. It shall be unlawful to request from an applicant, at his or her
   expense, his or her record of arrests.

   503.8. Processing and retention of applications and the information in the
   applications shall be done equally without regard to a person’s membership
   in a protected class. Processing and retention of applications and the
   information in the applications for other lawful purposes, such as the
   purposes noted in § 503.3, shall be legal, in accordance with D.C. Official
   Code § 2-1402.53(a).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 006029 (July 31, 2009).
