                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENETIC INFORMATION (§ 4-509)

509.1. The Office and Commission adopt and incorporate by reference any
   guidelines adopted by the EEOC pursuant to the Genetic Information
   Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (Pub. L. No. 110-233; 122 Stat. 881).

   509.2. The following actions or practices shall be prohibited:
   
   
   
   (a)	It is a discriminatory practice for an employer, employment agency, or
   labor organization to do the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Requesting or requiring a genetic test of, or administering a genetic test
   to, an employee or applicant for employment or membership; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Seeking to obtain, obtaining, or using genetic information of an employee
   or applicant for employment.
   
   
   
   (b)	It is a discriminatory practice for an employment agency to fail or refuse
   to refer any individual for employment or otherwise discriminate against any
   individual because of genetic information of the individual.
   
   
   
   (c)	It is a discriminatory practice for a labor organization to exclude or to
   expel from the membership of the organization, or otherwise to discriminate
   against, any member because of genetic information with respect to the member.
   
   
   
   (d)	It is a discriminatory practice for any employer, labor organization, or
   joint labor-management committee controlling apprenticeship or other training
   or retraining programs, including on-the-job training programs, to
   discriminate against any individual because of the individual’s genetic
   information in admission to, or employment in, any program established to
   provide apprenticeship or other training or retraining.
   
   
   
   (e)	It is a discriminatory practice for an employer to use family medical
   history in making employment decisions.
   
   
   
   (f)	It is a discriminatory practice for an employer to request information
   about family medical history pre-employment or post-employment, including
   through any type of medical examination required of employees for the purpose
   of determining continuing fitness for duty.

   509.3. An employer, employment agency, or labor organization may use genetic
   testing or information for the following reasons:
   
   
   
   (a)	With the written and informed consent of the employee or applicant for
   employment, to determine the existence of a bona fide occupational
   qualification; or
   
   
   
   (b)	To investigate a workers’ compensation or disability compensation claim,
   or determine an employee’s susceptibility or exposure to potentially toxic
   substances in the workplace.

   509.4. If determining an employee’s susceptibility or level of exposure to
   potentially toxic substances in the workplace, the employee shall provide, in
   writing, his or her informed consent. The genetic information shall be
   provided to the employee in writing as soon as it is available, and the
   genetic information shall not be disclosed to any other person.

   509.5. A group health plan, or a health insurance issuer offering health
   insurance coverage in connection with a group health plan, may request, but
   not require, that a participant or beneficiary undergo a genetic test if each
   of the following requirements is met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The request is made in writing, and complies with local or federal law
   with respect to the protection of human subjects;
   
   
   
   (b)	The plan or issuer clearly indicates to each participant or beneficiary,
   or in the case of a minor child, to the parent or legal guardian of such
   beneficiary, to whom the request is made that:
   
   
   
   1	Compliance is voluntary; and
   
   
   
   2	Non-compliance will have no effect on enrollment status or premium or
   contribution amounts; and
   
   
   
   (c)	No genetic information collected or acquired for these purposes shall be
   used for eligibility purposes.

   509.6. The following are not considered genetic information for purposes of
   this chapter:
   
   
   
   (a)	Information about an applicant’s or employee’s current health status,
   which includes information about sex, age, physical exams, and chemical,
   blood, or urine analyses;
   
   
   
   (b)	Genetic services or health services provided by the employer, including
   genetic tests, provided to obtain or interpret genetic information for
   diagnostic or therapeutic purposes, or for purposes of genetic education or
   counseling; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Results obtained from tests for abuse of alcohol or drugs.

   509.7. If an employer, employment agency, or labor organization obtains
   protected genetic information when seeking current health status information,
   the genetic information will be subject to the same restrictions that apply to
   genetic information generally.

   509.8. If genetic information is obtained for any lawful reason, it shall be
   stored in a separate confidential file, not in the employee’s general
   personnel file.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 006029 (July 31, 2009).
