                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPENSATION (§ 4-505)

505.1. It is unlawful to discriminate in compensation on the basis of
   membership in any class protected by Title I of the Act.  This prohibition
   shall apply to practices supported by a union contract providing for
   discriminatory compensation.

   505.2. For the purposes of this chapter, “compensation” is defined as all
   types and methods of remuneration paid to or on behalf of an employee for
   employment, including wages, uniforms, overtime pay, paid vacations and
   holidays, paid leaves of absence (except as otherwise herein provided under
   guidelines for specific protected classes), paid lunch periods, and paid rest
   or coffee breaks. Commissions, draws, advances, and guarantees are also
   compensation.

   505.3. Insurance, retirement, and benefit plans shall be considered a form of
   compensation if an employer contributes to them.  Any differential in these
   forms of compensation shall be unlawful if the differential determined on the
   basis of membership in a class protected by Title I of the Act. In order to
   justify a differential in compensation, an employer shall have a
   non-discriminatory basis for the differential.

   505.4. Differentials in compensation that flow from the effects of unlawful
   past discrimination and which are based on membership in the classes protected
   by Title I of the Act, shall be unlawful, including those resulting in some
   disadvantage in a merit, incentive, or seniority plan.

   505.5. The Office and the Commission shall make a determination as to whether
   discrimination exists in compensation by weighing the following criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	The type of job; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The skill, effort, and responsibility involved in performing the job.

   505.6. Insurance, retirement, and welfare plans shall not discriminate on the
   basis of membership in any class protected by Title I of the Act, except as in
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any bona fide employment benefit plan, such as a retirement pension or
   insurance plan which is specifically exempt under the provisions of the Age
   Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (29 U.S.C. § 621 et seq.); and
   
   
   
   (b)	Insurance plans which are otherwise lawful and which are based on
   actuarial tables that limit or deny coverage to certain types of disability.

   505.7. If an employer contributes to an employee benefit plan, the employer
   shall furnish equal benefits for all protected classes even if the
   employer’s contribution is greater for one class than for another.

   505.8. Employees in protected classes shall not be required to make greater
   contributions in order to receive equal benefits. If family insurance is
   provided, that insurance shall provide the coverage for all protected classes
   and cannot provide only individual coverage for certain protected classes, for
   example, women or divorced persons.

   505.9. Employee benefit plans shall be illegal if they favor survivors of male
   employees over those of female employees, or vice versa. Nothing in this
   subsection shall be considered to preclude the operation of a bona fide
   waiting period clause.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 006029 (July 31, 2009).
