                                  DC REGULATIONS

DISABLITY (§ 4-514)

514.1. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Office and the
   Commission adopt and incorporate by reference the provisions promulgated by
   the EEOC and published at 29 CFR § 1613.701 et seq.

   514.2. Employment agencies which fail to accept applications, refer equally,
   or provide placement services for persons with disabilities shall be engaging
   in a discriminatory practice.

   514.3. Pre-employment inquiries may allow inquiry into the physical condition
   or past medical history of an individual for purposes allowed by § 503.3 or
   based on a business necessity. Where general characteristics of a physical
   condition would disqualify an applicant for a job, for example, where a person
   with a minor visual impairment or history of seizures applies for a driver
   position, the employer shall ascertain whether the individual’s specific
   condition prohibits him or her from meeting a necessary standard for safety or
   job performance.

   514.4. No employer shall refuse to hire a person with a disability when lack
   of such disability is required for a secondary portion of the job and when
   reasonable accommodation can be made through minor job restructuring.

   514.5. Tests offered applicants and employees shall be related to the job. For
   example, it shall be a discriminatory practice to give a blind person a vision
   test when sight is not required for the job.

   514.6. If health and insurance benefits are provided to employees for some
   disabilities, they shall be provided for all disabilities having a similar
   anticipated cost. This shall not prevent exclusions based on the cost of
   service to the individual, but it does prevent exclusions based on the number
   of individuals to be serviced.

   514.7. Excessive absenteeism, even if caused by injury or illness, may be
   grounds for termination if it interferes significantly with or causes an undue
   hardship upon the performance of duty.

   514.8. The use of non-discriminatory selection procedures shall not relieve
   employers, unions, or employment agencies of other legal obligations to take
   positive action in affording employment and training to persons with
   disabilities.

   514.9. Before a business necessity may excuse discrimination against a person
   with a disability, it shall be found that there is no alternative to the
   particular practice, or that a reasonable accommodation cannot be made.

   514.10. Where an employee’s specific physical or mental disability precludes
   the normal operation of a business or particular activity in existing
   structures, reasonable accommodation shall be made, where possible, through
   modifications in job description, workplace design, or physical renovation. In
   determining whether a modification is a reasonable accommodation, the Office
   and Commission shall consider factors such as the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nature and cost of the modification;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number of people, both those with and without disabilities, who would
   benefit by the modification;
   
   
   
   (c)	The benefits or detriments resulting from the modification with regard to
   the type and composition of the business and the physical structure and layout
   of the workplace; and
   
   
   
   (d)	When new construction, substantial redesign or remodeling, etc., occurs,
   whether the modification should provide for increased physical accessibility.

   514.11. Preferences of employees, tenants, patrons, clients, or other
   individuals that exclude persons with disabilities shall not be considered
   within the purview of business necessity.

   514.12. Employers shall retain employees who have become disabled while on the
   job so long as reasonable accommodation can be made.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 006029 (July 31, 2009).
