                                  DC REGULATIONS

BREASTFEEDING GUIDELINES (§ 4-518)

518.1. The Office and the Commission adopt this section for the following
   purposes:
   
   
   
   (a)	To implement the provisions of the Act regarding discrimination based on
   breastfeeding in employment, housing, public accommodations, or educational
   institutions, including all agencies of the District of Columbia government
   and its contractors or grantees;
   
   
   
   (b)	To provide guidance with regard to the requirements of the law to all
   employers, housing providers, businesses, organizations, educational
   institutions, and District government agencies and contractors seeking
   compliance with the law;
   
   
   
   (c)	To educate the public on the behaviors, conduct, and actions that
   constitute unlawful discrimination based on breastfeeding;
   
   
   
   (d)	To ensure that breastfeeding mothers and their children are treated with
   dignity and respect; and
   
   
   
   (e)	To guide the internal processing of complaints filed with the Office.

   518.2. The Office shall provide information to employers and employees
   regarding their rights and obligations under this section. Employers shall
   conspicuously post and maintain in the workplace a notice containing this
   information.

   518.3. Each employer shall create a policy with respect to its employees who
   are breastfeeding mothers; provided, that such policy shall not contain any
   rules or guidelines which dictate whether the mother’s breast, or any part
   of it, is uncovered during or incidental to the breastfeeding of her child.
   The policy shall be posted along with the notice required by § 518.2.

   518.4. A breastfeeding mother shall have rights to include, but not be limited
   to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The right to breastfeed her child in any location, public or private,
   where she has the right to be with her child;
   
   
   
   (b)	The right to breastfeed or express breast milk in accordance with this
   section, notwithstanding any other provision of District of Columbia law
   governing indecent exposure or the definition of the private or intimate parts
   of a female person, including that portion of the breast that is below the top
   of the areola;
   
   
   
   (c)	The right to be free from any workplace disciplinary action because of the
   exposure of any part of her breast during breastfeeding or while expressing
   breast milk;
   
   
   
   (d)	The right to be free from harassment or ridicule in the workplace because
   of her breastfeeding or expressing breast milk; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The right to workplace accommodations while breastfeeding or expressing
   breast milk.

   518.5. Employers shall accommodate breastfeeding employees by taking steps
   including, but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Affording reasonable daily break periods, paid or unpaid, so that the
   employee may breastfeed her child or express breast milk to maintain milk
   supply or relieve physical discomfort; provided, that an employer may require
   that such break periods run concurrently with any break periods already
   afforded; provided further, that an employer shall not be required to provide
   breastfeeding-related break periods if doing so would create an undue
   hardship;
   
   
   
   (b)	Affording flexible schedule, job-sharing, or telecommuting arrangements,
   if none are already afforded, unless doing so would create an undue hardship;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	Making reasonable efforts to provide a sanitary room or other location in
   close proximity to the work area, other than a bathroom or toilet stall, where
   an employee can breastfeed or express breast milk in privacy and security. The
   location:
   
   
   
   (1)	May include a childcare facility in close proximity to the work area; or
   
   
   
   (2)	If at the work area, shall have adequate lighting, ventilation, and an
   electrical outlet (if necessary for a pumping device), and may, but not be
   required to have, a lock for privacy, a sink with a safe water source,a
   comfortable chair, a small table, and a clock; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Allowing the employee to bring into the workplace a small refrigerator or
   freezer to store breast milk.

   518.6. It shall be a discriminatory practice:
   
   
   
   (a)	For a childcare facility to discriminate based on whether a child is on
   breast milk or formula; and
   
   
   
   (b)	For an employer, employment agency, or labor organization to refuse to
   hire or employ, to bar or discharge from employment, to withhold pay, demote,
   or penalize a breastfeeding employee because the employee breastfeeds or
   expresses milk in the workplace, or otherwise to deny the employee any right
   provided under this section.

   518.7. The procedure for resolving cases involving breastfeeding shall include
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	An aggrieved person shall file a written complaint with the Office
   alleging a violation of this section within one (1) year of the occurrence or
   the discovery of the occurrence;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Office shall docket the complaint within five (5) days of its receipt
   of the complaint and shall complete the investigation within thirty (30) days
   of its commencement or as soon as practicable thereafter;
   
   
   
   (c)	The complaint shall be considered dismissed if no probable cause is found,
   and the complainant may seek judicial review in the Superior Court for the
   District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (d)	If the Office determines that probable cause exists that discrimination
   based on a breastfeeding, the matter shall be sent to conciliation to
   determine if the parties wish to conciliate; and
   
   
   
   (e)	If the parties do not conciliate, or do not reach an agreement within
   thirty (30) days of the commencement of conciliation, the case will be sent to
   the Commission for adjudication under its policies and procedures. The
   Commission will seek to expedite the proceedings, when practicable.

   518.8. When used in this section, the following terms shall the following
   meaning:
   
   
   
   (a)	Reasonable efforts &#8211; any effort that would not impose an undue
   hardship on the operation of an employer’s business.
   
   
   
   (b)	Undue hardship &#8211; any action that requires significant difficulty or
   expense when considered in relation to factors such as the size of an
   employer’s business, its financial resources, and the nature and structure
   of its operation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 006029 (July 31, 2009).
