                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXCEPTIONS (§ 4-520)

520.1. An employer may observe the conditions of a bona fide seniority system
   or a bona fide employee benefit system such as a retirement, pension, or
   insurance plan which is not a subterfuge to evade the purposes of Title I of
   the Act; provided, that no employee seniority system or benefit plan shall
   excuse the failure to hire any individual.

   520.2. An employer may hire and employ employees on the basis of their
   membership in a class protected by Title I of the Act in special instances
   where sex, national origin, religion, disability, or other protected status is
   a business necessity for the normal operation of the particular business or
   enterprise.

   520.3. Any religious or political organization, or any organization for
   charitable or educational purposes which is operated, supervised, or
   controlled by, or is operated in connection with, a religious or political
   organization may limit employment or give preferences to persons of the same
   religion or political persuasion as is calculated by such organization to
   promote the religious or political principles for which it is established or
   maintained.

   520.4. Any practice which has a discriminatory effect and which would
   otherwise be prohibited by Title I of the Act shall not be deemed unlawful if
   it can be established that:
   
   
   
   (a)	The practice is not intentionally devised or operated to contravene the
   prohibitions of Title I of the Act; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The practice can be justified as a business necessity.

   520.5. For purposes of this chapter, a “business necessity” exception
   shall be applicable only in the individual case where it can be proved that,
   without such exception, the business cannot be conducted. A “business
   necessity” exception shall not be justified by the factors of increased cost
   to business, business efficiency, the comparative characteristics of one group
   as opposed to another, the stereotyped characterization of one group as
   opposed to another, and the preferences of co-workers, customers, or any other
   persons.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 006029 (July 31, 2009).
