                                  DC REGULATIONS

MODIFYING, SUSPENDING OR TERMINATING BENEFITS (§ 7-127)

127.1. The Program may make an ED to modify, suspend, or terminate a
   claimant’s benefits.
   
   
   
   127.2 	A claimant who is receiving benefits under the Program shall not be the
   subject of an ED unless and until there is sufficient evidence to support the
   issuance of an ED pursuant to the Act and this section.
   
   
   
   127.3 	An ED may be based, in whole or in part, upon the following factors:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The award of compensation was for a specific period of time which has
   expired;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The death of the claimant;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Clear evidence that the claimant has returned to work;
   
   
   
   (d)	Clear evidence that the claimant has been released to return to work;
   
   
   
   (e) 	The claimant has been released to or has returned to work on a part-time
   or modified duty basis, notwithstanding that the claimant has been directed to
   undergo vocational rehabilitation under section 2304 of the Act;
   
   
   
   (f) 	The claimant has been convicted of fraud in connection with the claim;
   
   
   
   (g) 	The claimant’s failure to participate in vocational rehabilitation,
   failure to cooperate with the Program&#8217;s request for a physical
   examination by a treating or AME physician, or failure to follow prescribed
   and recommended courses of medical treatment;
   
   
   
   (h)	The claimant’s failure to cooperate with the subrogation process
   pursuant to § 143 of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (i) 	Controversion of the claim for two (2) years pursuant to § 112.7;
   
   
   
   (j)  	Retirement of the claimant;
   
   
   
   (k)	Clear evidence that the claimant has knowingly and willfully received
   benefits to which he or she was not entitled under the Act;
   
   
   
   (l)	The cessation or lessening of a compensable injury;
   
   
   
   (m) 	The condition is no longer causally related to the claimant’s
   employment with the District government;
   
   
   
   (n) 	The condition has changed from a total disability to a partial
   disability;
   
   
   
   (o) 	The Program has offered the claimant a modified duty position and the
   claimant has refused to accept the position, pursuant to § 137 of this
   chapter;
   
   
   
   (p) 	The Program determines based upon strong compelling evidence that the ID
   was in error; or
   
   
   
   (q) 	Any other ground demonstrating that the Act requires the claimant’s
   benefits to be modified.
   
   
   
   127.4 	With the exception of the factors set forth in paragraphs 127.3(a)
   through (k) and § 127.5, compensation benefits subject to an ED shall not be
   modified or terminated until the period for requesting reconsideration set
   forth in § 128 has elapsed with no Request for Reconsideration being received
   by the ORM, or until a timely Request for Reconsideration has been decided by
   the ORM, whichever is earlier.

   127.5. The Program may modify or terminate compensation benefits subject to an
   ED simultaneous with notice to the claimant, pursuant to §§ 127.3 and 127.4,
   when:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A claimant’s treating physician has released a claimant to return to work;
   or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An AME physician has released a claimant to return to work and the
   claimant’s treating physician has either agreed with the AME physician’s
   opinion or has not disagreed with the AME physician’s opinion.

   127.6. If the claimant’s treating physician disagrees with the AME
   physician’s opinion, then the Program shall not modify or terminate the
   claimant’s benefits until the period for requesting reconsideration set
   forth in § 128 has elapsed with no Request for Reconsideration being received
   by the ORM, or until a timely Request for Reconsideration has been decided by
   the ORM, whichever is earlier.

   127.7. In making its determinations regarding whether a claim should be the
   subject of an ED, the Program shall consider all relevant evidence in the
   claim file, including all relevant medical evidence.

   127.8. Medical reports that fail to meet the requirements of § 123.13 may be
   deemed to be invalid and compensation claims based thereon may be denied.

   127.9. The ED is effective unless the claimant succeeds on a Request for
   Reconsideration under § 128 of this chapter or prevails at a hearing under §
   129 of this chapter, or the Program revises the ED.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8766, 8798 (July 27, 2012).
