                                  DC REGULATIONS

MEDICAL SERVICES AND SUPPLIES[COLON] TREATING PHYSICIANS (§ 7-123)

123.1 	Pursuant to section 2303(a) of the Act, the District government shall
   furnish to a claimant who is injured while in the performance of duty the
   services, appliances, and supplies prescribed or recommended by a qualified
   treating physician, which the Program considers likely to cure, give relief,
   reduce the degree or injury length, or aid in lessening the amount of the
   monthly compensation.

   123.2. In order for the Program to pay for the services provided by a treating
   physician, the physician must be a member of a panel of treating physicians. 
   The panel shall be selected by the Program.

   123.3. Physicians shall apply to be members of the panel.  The Program shall
   select members of the panel based on the physicians’ likelihood of meeting
   the goals of § 123.1.  The Program may add and remove physicians from the
   panel at its discretion.

   123.4. The Program shall inform a claimant whose claim has been accepted of
   the requirement in § 123.2 and shall provide the claimant with a list of
   panel physicians who provide the type of treatment needed by the employee.

   123.5. If the Program decides to remove a physician from the panel of treating
   physicians, the Program shall give all of the claimants currently being
   treated that physician notice of the decision, as well as a list of
   alternative treating physicians on the panel, thirty (30) days before the
   physician is removed from the panel.

   123.6. If a claimant decides to receive treatment from a non-panel physician
   after the Program provides the claimant with a list of panel physicians, the
   claimant is not entitled to reimbursement for the cost of services provided by
   the non-panel physician.
   
   
   
   123.7 	An injured claimant may, when the claimant is first injured, select a
   non-panel physician to provide medical services, appliances, and supplies if
   the claimant is unable to make an appointment with a panel physician due to
   the urgency of the need for treatment.

   123.8. If there is a need for immediate medical treatment and, due to the
   nature of an injury, the injured claimant is unable to contact a physician,
   the injured claimant may seek treatment at an emergency care facility.  Notice
   of the provision of emergency care shall be provided to the Program no later
   than thirty (30) days after the care is rendered.
   
   
   
   123.9 	Once a panel treating physician is selected to provide treatment under
   the Act, an injured claimant shall not change to another physician or hospital
   without authorization of the Program, except in an emergency.
   
   
   
   123.10 	If the injured claimant is not satisfied with the medical care
   provided by a panel physician, a request for change shall be submitted, in
   writing, with justification to the Program. The Program shall permit a change
   where the Program finds the change to be in the best interest of the injured
   claimant.

   123.11. Upon a request from the Program, the claimant and panel or non-panel
   treating physicians shall provide copies of all the claimant’s medical
   records regardless of the source of the record(s) or the medical condition(s)
   addressed in the records.  The Program shall take appropriate steps to ensure
   that the medical records provided to it are maintained in a confidential
   manner.
   
   
   
   123.12 	After the claimant’s first appointment with a treating physician,
   the physician shall file a comprehensive medical report with the Program
   containing a diagnosis of physical findings or examination, a statement
   concerning the injury’s relationship to employment, the treatment plan, if
   any, and an opinion regarding the claimant’s prognosis within ten (10)
   business days of an examination of the injured employee or claimant.

   123.13. The following information shall be included in a medical report from a
   physician that is used by the Program in connection with an ID, ED, or other
   Program decision affecting a claimant’s benefits:
   
   
   
   (a)	Date(s) of examination and treatment, if any;
   
   
   
   (b)	History given by the claimant;
   
   
   
   (c)	Physical findings;
   
   
   
   (d)	Results of diagnostic tests;
   
   
   
   (e)	Diagnosis;
   
   
   
   (f)	Course of treatment, if any;
   
   
   
   (g)	Description of any other conditions found that are not due to the claimed
   injury;
   
   
   
   (h)	Treatment given or recommended for the claimed injury, if any;
   
   
   
   (i)	Physician&#8217;s opinion, with medical reasons, as to causal relationship
   between the diagnosed condition(s) and the factors or conditions of the
   employment;
   
   
   
   (j)	Extent of disability affecting the claimant’s ability to work due to the
   injury;
   
   
   
   (k)	Prognosis for recovery, including an estimate regarding when the claimant
   will be able to return to work; and
   
   
   
   (l)	All other material findings.
   
   
   
   123.14 	Any physician who continues to treat an injured employee or claimant
   shall, at no cost, provide periodic progress reports, treatment records, and
   bills to the Program, in compliance with § 123.12.
   
   
   
   123.15 	The Program may require an injured claimant to submit to physical
   examinations at times and places reasonably convenient for the claimant in
   order to continue to investigate a claimant’s eligibility for benefits under
   the Act.  The Program may suspend a claimant’s benefits if the claimant
   fails to attend or otherwise obstructs a physical examination that is required
   by the Program.

   123.16. If the Program denies authorization for payment for any treatment or
   procedure, the Program shall provide a claimant with written notice of the
   denial, using a form that the Program creates, no later than thirty (30) days
   after the treating physician makes a written request to the Program for this
   authorization.

   123.17. If the Program fails to provide written notification to the claimant
   within thirty (30) days of the request, it shall be deemed that the Program
   authorized the treatment or procedure, unless the Program commences a
   utilization review pursuant to § 126 of this chapter within thirty (30) days
   of the request.

   123.18. If a claimant or treating physician is unsatisfied with a decision of
   the Program under this subsection, the claimant or physician may make a
   written request that the Program initiate the utilization review process
   pursuant to § 126 of this chapter within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
   Program’s decision.
   
   
   
   123.19 	All medical providers shall include in each medical report and bill
   for services rendered under the Act, the code, as published by the American
   Medical Association (AMA) in the most current edition of the Physicians
   Current Procedural Terminology (CPT Codes), for detailing the billing of all
   medical procedures and the codes established by the most recent edition of the
   International Classification of Diagnosis (ICD) code, as published by the U.S.
   Department of Health and Human Services, for diagnosing the conditions.
   
   
   
   123.20 	The Program shall require a medical report and/or invoice from a
   medical care provider to substantiate payment of bills. All reports shall be
   typewritten on the physician&#8217;s letterhead and signed and dated by the
   attending physician.
   
   
   
   123.21 	Fees and other charges for treatment or medical services shall be
   limited to those that are reasonable and customary charges prevailing in the
   local medical community as the Program determines.
   
   
   
   123.22 	The cost of physical examinations ordered by the Program shall be paid
   by the Program, unless the examination is conducted by a non-panel physician. 
   A panel physician shall not attempt to collect a disputed payment for medical
   services in connection with a compensable claim under the Act from the injured
   employee or claimant.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8766, 8790 (July 27, 2012).
