                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPEAL OF INITIAL DETERMINATIONS AND ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS (§ 7-128)

128.1. An employee or claimant who is not already receiving benefits and is
   dissatisfied with an ID may request a hearing under § 129 of this chapter.

   128.2. An employee or claimant who is already receiving benefits and is
   dissatisfied with an ED may either submit a request for reconsideration to the
   ORM, or appeal the ED as provided in the Act, but not both at the same time.

   128.3. In the event an employee or claimant submits both a request for
   reconsideration to the Program and a request for a hearing to the OHA, the
   employee shall be entitled only to the appeal process with the agency that
   first received the request.  The other request shall not be considered by the
   other agency.

   128.4. A claimant shall be entitled to receive continued benefits pending a
   decision on a request for reconsideration unless:
   
   
   
   (a)	The award for compensation was for a specific period of time which has
   expired;
   
   
   
   (b)	The claimant has died;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The claimant has returned to work;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The claimant has been released to return to work and the requirements of  §
   127.5 have been met;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The claimant has been convicted of fraud in connection with the claim;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The claimant has been released to or has returned to work on a part-time or
   modified duty basis notwithstanding individuals directed to undergo vocational
   rehabilitation under section 2304 of the Act.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The claimant’s compensation benefits have been suspended due to the
   claimant’s failure to participate in vocational rehabilitation, failure to
   cooperate with the Program&#8217;s request for a physical examination by a
   treating or AME physician, failure to follow prescribed and recommended
   courses of medical treatment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The claimant has failed to cooperate with the subrogation process pursuant to
   § 143 of this chapter;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The claimant has voluntarily retired and been awarded retirement benefits in
   lieu of workers’ compensation benefits; or
   
   
   
   (j)	The claimant knowingly and willfully received benefits to which he or she
   was not entitled under the Act.

   128.5. If a Request for Reconsideration is properly and timely submitted
   pursuant to this section, the ORM may affirm, modify, vacate, or remand the ED
   for further examination by the claims examiner, in full, or in part.

   128.6. A request for reconsideration shall be written and shall contain
   medical, vocational, or factual justification.

   128.7. A Request for Reconsideration shall be delivered to the ORM by hand, or
   by first-class mail, postage prepaid, within thirty (30) days of the date of
   issuance of the ED that is the subject of the Request for Reconsideration. If
   a Request for Reconsideration is hand-delivered, the ORM shall provide the
   claimant with a dated receipt. Requests for Reconsideration shall not be
   accepted by facsimile or email.

   128.8. If the ORM receives a Request for Reconsideration after the thirtieth
   (30th) day following the issuance of the ED, it shall deny the Request for
   Reconsideration as untimely without ruling on the merits.

   128.9. A claimant may request a waiver of the filing deadline in § 128.7 on
   the grounds that good cause existed during the thirty (30) days following the
   ED decision sufficient to justify the ORM&#8217;s late receipt of the Request
   for Reconsideration. The claimant shall provide factual justification and
   supporting documentation required by ORM to support the request for the
   waiver. In no event shall a request for a waiver of the deadline be considered
   after one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of issuance of an ED.

   128.10. The ORM shall rule on the merits of a Request for Reconsideration. The
   standard to prevail on a Request for Reconsideration shall be preponderance of
   the evidence, based on the Act, best practices, and applicable case law. If
   the ORM&#8217;s decision on the Request for Reconsideration is based in whole
   or in part on medical information, the ORM shall, in making its ruling, adhere
   to the requirements of § 123.13.

   128.11. The ORM shall, using a standard form developed by the ORM, provide a
   brief written explanation of its decision and mail the decision to the
   employee.

   128.12. If the ORM grants a Request for Reconsideration, ORM shall remand the
   claim back to the claims examiner and instruct the claims examiner to issue a
   new NOD that is consistent with the Reconsideration decision.

   128.13. If the ORM grants a Request for Reconsideration and the claimant has
   been receiving continued benefits during the pendency of the ORM&#8217;s
   decision, such benefits shall continue without interruption. If ORM grants a
   Request for Reconsideration and the claimant has not been receiving benefits
   during the pendency of the ORM&#8217;s decision, all current and any
   retroactive benefits due to the claimant shall be paid within thirty (30)
   days.

   128.14. If the ORM denies a Request for Reconsideration, ORM shall issue a
   reconsideration decision from which the claimant shall have thirty (30)
   calendar days to appeal to the OHA.  A claimant shall not be entitled to
   receive continuing benefits pending a hearing.

   128.15. The ORM decision shall not be binding upon a OHA Administrative Law
   Judge (ALJ).
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8766, 8800 (July 27, 2012).
