                                  DC REGULATIONS

TRANSPORTATION AND MILEAGE (§ 7-125)

125.1. The Program may provide a claimant with transportation to and from a
   physical examination or medical treatment that is authorized by the Program
   pursuant to this chapter.

   125.2. A claimant who needs transportation to and from a physical examination
   or medical treatment shall request such transportation from the Program no
   later than five (5) business days before the authorized physical examination
   or medical treatment.

   125.3. The Program shall authorize transportation to a routine physical
   examination only if the claimant provides the Program with documentation from
   his or her treating physician that the transportation is necessary due to
   medical necessity.  “Medical necessity,” as used in this section, means
   that the claimant is not capable of driving himself or herself or using public
   transportation to get to the examination, due to his or her work-related
   injury.

   125.4. The Program shall authorize transportation to an AME if the examination
   is within a reasonable distance of the claimant’s home address, work
   address, or public transportation, only if the claimant provides the Program
   with documentation from his or her treating physician that the transportation
   is necessary due to medical necessity.  If the AME is not within a reasonable
   distance of the claimant’s home address, work address, or public
   transportation, the Program shall provide the claimant with transportation to
   the examination upon the claimant’s request.

   125.5. The Program shall authorize transportation to an outpatient or
   inpatient surgical procedure upon the claimant’s request.

   125.6. Upon a claimant’s request, the Program may reimburse a claimant for
   expenses incident to the claimant’s attendance at a routine physical
   examination, Additional Medical Examination, or medical treatment that is
   authorized by the Program, including for the cost of public transportation,
   mileage, and parking expenses.

   125.7. Claimants shall be reimbursed for the cost of mileage based upon the
   distance from either his or her place of employment to the physician’s
   office or treating facility, or from his or her home to the physician’s
   office or treating facility.  The cost per mile reimbursed by the Program
   shall be at the same rate as the United States General Services Administration
   Privately Owned Vehicle Mileage Reimbursement Rates.  The cost per mile shall
   be included on the form required in § 125.8 and shall be posted on the
   ORM’s website.

   125.8. If a claimant requests reimbursement of expenses pursuant to § 125.6,
   the Program shall send the claimant a form requesting information on and
   documentation of the cost of the expenses.  A claimant shall not be reimbursed
   for expenses under this section if the claimant has not returned the form and
   documentation as requested by the Program.

   125.9. In order to be reimbursed for transportation expenses pursuant to §
   125.6, the claimant must submit a written request for reimbursement within
   ninety (90) days of the date that the claimant incurred the expense.  The
   Program shall deny requests received after ninety (90) days of the date that
   the claimant incurred the expense.  If the claimant’s request for
   reimbursement of expenses meets the requirements of this section, the Program
   shall reimburse the claimant within ninety (90) days of the Program’s
   receipt of all of the information and documentation required to make a
   decision on the claimant’s request.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8766, 8795 (July 27, 2012).
