                                  DC REGULATIONS

UTILIZATION REVIEW (§ 7-126)

126.1 	Any medical care or service furnished or scheduled to be furnished
   under the Act shall be subject to utilization review. The review may be
   performed before, during, or after the medical care or service is provided.
   
   
   
   126.2 	A utilization review organization or individual used pursuant to the
   Act shall be certified by the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission.
   
   
   
   126.3 	The claimant or the Program may initiate utilization review where it
   appears that the necessity, character, or sufficiency of medical services is
   improper or clarification is needed on medical service that is scheduled to be
   provided.

   126.4. If a review of medical care or a service is initiated under this
   section, the utilization review organization must make a decision no later
   than sixty (60) days after the utilization review is requested.  If the
   utilization review is not completed within one hundred-twenty (120) days of
   the request, the care or service under review shall be deemed approved.
   
   
   
   126.5 	The report of the review shall specify the medical records considered
   and shall set forth rational medical evidence to support each finding. The
   report shall be authenticated or attested to by the utilization review
   individual or by an officer of the utilization review organization. The report
   shall be provided to the employee and the Program.

   126.6. Any decision issued by the utilization review organization under this
   section shall inform the claimant of his or her right to reconsideration or
   appeal of the decision.
   
   
   
   126.7 	A utilization review report which conforms to the provisions of this
   section shall be admissible in all proceedings with respect to any claim to
   determine whether medical care or service was, is, or may be necessary and
   appropriate to the diagnosis of the claimant&#8217;s injury.
   
   
   
   126.8 	If the medical care provider or claimant disagrees with the opinion of
   the utilization review organization or individual, the medical care provider
   or claimant may submit a written request to the utilization review
   organization or individual for reconsideration of the opinion.

   126.9. The request for reconsideration shall be in writing and contain
   reasonable medical justification, and may provide additional information if
   the medical care or service was denied because insufficient information was
   initially provided to the utilization review organization.  The request for
   reconsideration shall be made within sixty (60) calendar days of the
   claimant’s actual receipt of the utilization review report if the claimant
   is requesting reconsideration, or within sixty (60) calendar days of the
   medical provider’s actual receipt of the utilization review report, if the
   medical care provider is requesting reconsideration.
   
   
   
   126.10 	If the utilization review organization denies the medical care
   provider’s or claimant’s request for reconsideration, the medical care
   provider or claimant may appeal the reconsideration decision by applying for a
   hearing before  the OHA within thirty (30) days of the date of the
   reconsideration decision.

   126.11. The Superior Court of the District of Columbia may review the ALJ’s
   decision without an appeal to the Compensation Review Board.  The decision may
   be affirmed, modified, reversed, or remanded at the discretion of the court. 
   The decision shall be affirmed if supported by substantial competent evidence
   of the record, pursuant to the District of Columbia Superior Court Rules of
   Civil Procedure Agency Review.

   126.12. A medical provider or claimant may not appeal a decision of a
   utilization review organization to the OHA without first requesting
   reconsideration under §§ 126.8 and 126.9.
   
   
   
   126.13 	The District of Columbia government shall pay the cost of a
   utilization review.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8766, 8796 (July 27, 2012).
