                                  DC REGULATIONS

CLAIMS FOR FEES FOR REPRESENTATION (ยง 7-132)

132.1. Claims for fees for representation of a claimant shall be submitted in
   writing to the ALJ, if a hearing has been requested, within thirty (30) days
   of the issuance of a decision under ยง 130.12.

   132.2. A copy of the claim shall be simultaneously forwarded by the
   representative to the claimant who was represented.

   132.3. All claims shall include an itemized statement describing the services
   rendered. The itemization shall contain at least the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The dates that services began and ended and all dates on which conferences
   were held, documents or letters prepared, or telephone calls made;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of each service rendered with the amount of time spent on
   each type of service;
   
   
   
   (c)	The amount of the fee which the representative desires for services
   performed;
   
   
   
   (d)	The amount of fees requested, charged, or received for services rendered
   on behalf of the claimant before any state or federal court or agency, in a
   similar or related matter; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement explaining the basis for the amount of the fee requested.

   132.4. No claim shall be approved by the ALJ pursuant to section 2327(b) of
   the Act unless the representative submitting the claim was duly appointed by
   the claimant in accordance with ยง 131.1 of this chapter.

   132.5. In determining whether to approve a claim, the ALJ shall consider at
   least the following factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nature and complexity of the claim;
   
   
   
   (b)	The actual time spent on development and presentation of the claim;
   
   
   
   (c)	The amount of compensation accrued and potential future payments;
   
   
   
   (d)	Customary local charges for similar services; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Professional qualifications of the representative.

   132.6. The decision approving or disapproving a claim shall be forwarded to
   the representative and to the claimant who was represented.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8766, 8804 (July 27, 2012).
