                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMPLOYEE RETENTION (§ 7-139)

139.1. In the event an employee resumes employment with the District
   government after receiving indemnity compensation for a period of time, the
   entire time during which the employee was receiving compensation under this
   subchapter shall be credited to the employee for the purposes of within-grade
   step increases, retention purposes, and other rights and benefits based upon
   length of service.  The credit shall be provided after the employee resumes
   employment with the District government.
   
   
   
   139.2 		If the employee resumes employment with the District government within
   two (2) years of the first date the employee received compensation or medical
   treatment, the employee’s pre-injury employment agency shall immediately and
   unconditionally accord the employee the right to resume his or her former, or
   an equivalent, position as well as all other attendant rights which the
   employee would have had or acquired in his or her former position had he or
   she not been injured, including the rights to tenure, promotion, and
   safeguards in reduction-in-force procedures.

   139.3. In the event an employee resumes regular full time employment within
   two (2) years pursuant to § 139.2, and the employee suffers a recurrence of
   his or her injury that causes him or her to not be able to work, the two (2)
   years referenced in § 139.2, shall begin to accrue again after the first date
   the employee receives compensation or medical treatment following the
   recurrence of the injury.  In the event the Program receives evidence that an
   employee has either fraudulently reported a recurrent injury or intended to
   bring a recurrent injury on herself or himself after resuming employment, then
   the employee will not accrue the rights afforded under this section and the
   Program shall refer the matter to the Office of Inspector General for
   investigation.

   139.4. If an employee’s injury or disability is overcome more than two (2)
   years after the date of commencement of payment of compensation or the
   provision of medical treatment by the Program, the employee’s employment
   agency shall make all reasonable efforts to place, and accord priority to
   placing the employee in his or her former or equivalent position within either
   the employment agency or within any other department or agency in the District
   government.

   139.5. Nothing in this provision shall exclude the responsibility of the
   employing agency to re-employ an employee in a full-duty or part-time status.

   139.6. An employee is not entitled to accrue annual, sick, or any other leave
   while not working for the District government and receiving indemnity
   compensation under this chapter.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8766, 8808 (July 27, 2012).
