                                  DC REGULATIONS

RETURN TO WORK PROGRAM (§ 7-137)

137.1 	On a monitored, progressive basis, the Program may direct claimants
   with temporary or partial disabilities to participate in a modified work
   program designed to provide consistent and appropriate assistance to claimants
   to return to work quickly and safely.
   
   
   
   137.2 	Claimants must have the appropriate medical release from their treating
   physician to perform modified duty. The medical release must include any
   specified restrictions and their anticipated duration.

   137.3. The Program shall attempt to place injured claimants within their
   pre-injury agency, or within another agency when modified work assignments are
   not available within the pre-injury employment agency.  Once assigned to a
   modified duty placement, the pre-injury employment agency is responsible for
   the salary of the claimant.
   
   
   
   137.4 	The modified duty assignment may have a minimum duration of two (2)
   basic non-overtime workdays and a maximum duration of one-hundred eighty (180)
   days (assigned in ninety (90) day increments) in any twelve (12) month period.
    For those claimants whose basic non-overtime workday may exceed eight (8)
   hours, the basic non-overtime workday shall be the shift, or tour of duty,
   worked on a regularly recurring basis for the three (3) months immediately
   preceding the injury.
   
   
   
   137.5 	A claimant who is able to perform the duties of his or her pre-injury
   position during the modified duty assignment period is entitled to receive
   compensation at the same rate of pay as received prior to the injury.
   
   
   
   137.6 	A claimant who is not able to perform the full scope of duties of his
   or her pre-injury position shall receive a modified rate of compensation
   closest to the rate prior to the injury, without exceeding it. A partial
   disability benefit will be applied if appropriate, at the rate of sixty-six
   and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) or, if the claimant is eligible for augmented
   pay pursuant to section 2310 of the Act, seventy-five percent (75%) of the
   difference between the pre-disability rate and the modified duty rate.
   
   
   
   137.7 	The pre-injury rate of pay shall not be exceeded during the modified
   duty assignment.

   137.8. If a claimant is offered a modified duty assignment and elects not to
   accept the modified duty assignment, the Program shall terminate the
   claimant’s benefits.

   137.9. The Program shall advise the claimant orally and in writing of the
   available temporary modified duty assignment, including the location and hours
   of the assignment, the essential job functions, the restrictions specified by
   the physician, and the rate of compensation to be received by the claimant. 
   This same information shall be shared orally and in writing with the human
   resources advisor of the claimant’s pre-injury employment agency and the
   agency where the claimant is being assigned, if different from the
   claimant’s pre-injury employment agency.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8766, 8807 (July 27, 2012).
