                                  DC REGULATIONS

VOLUNTARY SETTLEMENTS (§ 7-136)

136.1. Pursuant to section 2335 of the Act, a claimant and the Chief Risk
   Officer or his or her designee may enter into a voluntary lump-sum settlement
   to be a complete and final disposition of the claimant&#8217;s claim or case.

   136.2. The settlement may terminate the Program’s obligation to pay the
   claimant any workers’ compensation benefits, including indemnity payments
   and medical or other services.  When terminating medical services, the Program
   shall comply with all relevant District and federal requirements, including
   any requirements under the federal Medicare program.

   136.3. All settlement agreements shall be in writing and shall be signed by
   the claimant and the Mayor or his or her designee. If the claimant is
   represented by an attorney, the attorney shall also sign the settlement
   agreement. Further, the attorney also shall certify that the terms and
   conditions of the settlement, particularly including its finality, have been
   explained to and discussed with the claimant.

   136.4. Pursuant to the provisions of section 2316(d) of the Act, claimants and
   the Mayor or his or her designee may enter into voluntary settlements which do
   not preclude the receipt of retirement benefits generally payable for District
   service under the federal civil service retirement system.

   136.5. The United States Life Tables developed by the United States Department
   of Health and Human Services shall be utilized in determining the probability
   of the death of any claimant in reaching a voluntary lump-sum settlement
   agreement; however, the lump-sum payment to a surviving spouse or domestic
   partner of a deceased employee shall not exceed sixty (60) months of
   compensation which the spouse or domestic partner would have otherwise
   received.

   136.6. A voluntary lump-sum settlement may provide for periodic or installment
   payments of the settlement sum if agreed to by the claimant and the Mayor or
   his or her designee.

   136.7. Any voluntary lump-sum settlement entered into by the claimant and the
   Mayor or his or her designee may not be reviewed or modified pursuant to §§
   2324 or 2328 of the Act except in cases of fraud or misrepresentation by any
   party.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8766, 8806 (July 27, 2012).
