                                  DC REGULATIONS

VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION (§ 7-140)

140.1. A claimant with a permanent or temporary injury who has been determined
   to be able to work in a modified duty capacity and who has not been able to
   otherwise find employment, shall undergo vocational rehabilitation. The
   Program shall assign the claimant to a vocational rehabilitation case worker,
   who shall provide the claimant with skills training, job search, and
   application services.

   140.2. Claimants directed to undergo vocational rehabilitation, while
   undergoing such rehabilitation, shall continue to receive indemnity
   compensation, less the amount of any earnings received from remunerative
   employment other than employment undertaken pursuant to such rehabilitation.

   140.3. If a claimant has reached maximum medical improvement or has been
   released to work with permanent restrictions, the vocational rehabilitation
   services shall be for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days.

   140.4. After the ninety (90) day period has expired, the vocational
   rehabilitation services may be extended, at the discretion of the Program, for
   good cause shown, for incremental periods of ninety (90) days, not to exceed
   one (1) year from the initiation of the initial vocational rehabilitation
   plan.  The term “good cause,” as used in this section, means that there is
   evidence that a claimant’s medical condition is improving, that the Program
   or case worker has identified viable job opportunities for the claimant, or
   that there is evidence that continuation of participation in vocational
   rehabilitation is likely to result in the employment of the claimant.

   140.5. If a claimant hired on or after  January 1, 1980, without good cause
   fails to apply for or undergo vocational rehabilitation when so directed by
   the Program, his or her right to compensation under this chapter shall be
   suspended until the non-compliance ceases.  Failure to apply for or undergo
   vocational rehabilitation shall include failure to attend meetings with the
   vocational rehabilitation case worker, failure to apply for jobs that have
   been identified for the claimant, or failure to otherwise participate in good
   faith in the job application process.

   140.6. The Program shall pay for all vocational rehabilitation services
   provided under this section.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8766, 8809 (July 27, 2012).
