                                  DC REGULATIONS

LOSS OF WAGE EARNING CAPACITY (§ 7-141)

141.1. The Program may modify a claimant’s compensation by converting it
   from TTD, TPD, or PTD to compensation for Loss of Wage Earning Capacity (LWEC)
   under the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A qualified physician has released a claimant to return to work in a modified
   duty capacity with restrictions, after examining the claimant and reviewing
   his or her medical records; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A claimant has failed to apply for and undergo vocational rehabilitation when
   so directed by the Program and the Program finds that, in the absence of such
   failure, the wage-earning capacity of the claimant would probably have
   substantially increased.

   141.2. Before the Program may modify a claimant’s compensation pursuant to
   paragraph 141.1(a), the Program shall conduct a labor market survey.  The
   phrase “labor market survey,” as used in this section, means:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A determination of the types of jobs that a claimant is capable of doing,
   based on the following factors:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The nature of his or her injury;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The degree of physical impairment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   His or her usual employment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   His or her age;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   His or her qualifications for other employment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The availability of suitable employment; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Other factors or circumstances which may affect his or her wage-earning
   capacity as a worker with a disability,
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A determination of the claimant’s wage earning capacity, based on the wages
   that the claimant would be able to earn in the jobs identified pursuant to
   paragraph 141.2(a); and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A determination regarding the availability of the jobs identified pursuant to
   paragraph (a) in the commuting area surrounding the claimant’s residence.

   141.3. After it is completed, the Program shall share the labor market survey
   with the physician who conducted the examination referenced by paragraph
   141.1(a) and ask the physician to comment on whether or not the employee can
   perform the essential functions or requirements of the jobs listed in the
   labor market survey, in light of the claimant’s medical restrictions.  If
   the physician agrees that the claimant can perform the jobs in light of the
   claimant’s medical restrictions, the Program may modify the claimant’s
   benefits pursuant to § 141.4.

   141.4. After the claimant has met all of the requirements of this section, the
   Program may modify a claimant’s compensation to be sixty-six and two-thirds
   percent (66 2/3%) or, if the claimant is eligible for augmented pay pursuant
   to section 2310 of the Act, seventy-five percent (75%) of the difference
   between the claimant’s average weekly wage at the time of injury and the
   claimant’s wage-earning capacity.

   141.5. Prior to modifying a claimant’s compensation pursuant to this
   section, the Program must issue a NOD to the claimant that explains the basis
   of the Program’s decision and that attaches supporting documentation,
   including the LWEC wage calculation, the physician’s opinion, and the labor
   market survey.  The notice shall also advise the claimant of his or her right
   to request reconsideration or a hearing pursuant to § 128 of this chapter.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8766, 8810 (July 27, 2012).
