                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUBROGATION AND ADJUSTMENT AFTER RECOVERY FROM THIRD PARTY (§ 7-143)

143.1. If the Program determines that an injury or death for which indemnity
   compensation is payable under this chapter is caused under circumstances
   creating a legal liability on the part of a third party to pay the District or
   the employee damages, the Program may:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Require the claimant to assign to the District of Columbia government any
   right of action he or she may have to enforce the liability;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Require the claimant to assign to the District of Columbia any right that he
   or she may have to share in money or other property received in satisfaction
   of that liability; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Require the claimant to prosecute the action in his or her own name.

   143.2. If the Program identifies one of the circumstances enumerated in §
   143.1 or § 143.6, it shall notify the claimant in writing of the District’s
   right to compensation, as well as the claimant’s obligations under this
   section.
   
   
   
   143.3 	The Program may refer to the OAG for civil prosecution a cause of
   action assigned to the District of Columbia government under paragraph
   143.1(a).

   143.4. If the Program recovers on a cause of action prosecuted pursuant to §
   143.3, it shall deduct from the settlement or judgment the total amount of
   compensation already paid to the claimant in workers’ compensation benefits,
   as well as the total amount of the expenses of the civil prosecution. The
   deducted amount shall be deposited into the Employees’ Compensation Fund. 
   The claimant is entitled to not less than one-fifth (1/5) of the net amount of
   a settlement or recovery remaining after expenses have been deducted.

   143.5. If there are any funds remaining after the deductions and payments made
   pursuant to § 143.4, the Program shall deposit the remaining funds into the
   Employees’ Compensation Fund and the funds shall be used to pay the claimant
   future compensation payable for the same injury.

   143.6. If a claimant prosecutes a third party for an injury or death for which
   compensation is payable under this chapter and recovers money or other
   property in satisfaction of the third party’s liability, the claimant, after
   deducting the costs of the prosecution, reasonable attorneys’ fees, and
   one-fifth (1/5) of the net amount of money or property remaining after payment
   of expenses and attorneys’ fees, shall pay to the Program the amount of
   compensation already paid by the Program to the claimant under this chapter. 
   The payment shall be credited to the Employees’ Compensation Fund.  If there
   are any funds remaining after the claimant’s payment to the Program, the
   remaining sum shall be a credit for the same amount of future payments of
   compensation by the Program that the claimant is eligible for, for the same
   injury.  The Program shall not pay the claimant the number of future payments
   that totals the amount of the credit.

   143.7. No court, insurer, attorney, or other person shall pay or distribute to
   the claimant or his or her designee the proceeds of such suit or settlement
   without first satisfying or assuring satisfaction of the interest of the
   District of Columbia government pursuant to § 143.6.

   143.8. If a claimant refuses to assign or prosecute an action in his or her
   own name when required to do so by the Program pursuant to § 143.1, the
   Program may suspend or terminate the claimant’s indemnity compensation,
   pursuant to § 127 of this chapter.

   143.9. If a claimant refuses to pay the Program the payment owed pursuant to
   § 143.6, the Program may withhold the amount due from the claimant’s
   indemnity compensation payments.

   143.10. If a claimant returns to work and is then required to appear as a
   party or witness in the prosecution of an action under this section, the
   claimant shall be considered to be in an active duty status while so engaged.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8766, 8813 (July 27, 2012).
