                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT OF DISCUSSIONS WITH OFFERORS WITHIN THE COMPETITIVE RANGE (ยง 27-1638)

1638.1. The contracting officer shall ensure that, if discussions are held
   with any offeror within the competitive range pursuant to ยง 1636, discussions
   are held with all offerors in the competitive range.

   1638.2. During discussions with offerors, the contracting officer shall do the
   following:
   
   
   
   	(a)	Control all discussions;
   
   
   
   	(b)	Advise each offeror of weaknesses and deficiencies in its proposal so
   that 	the offeror is given an opportunity to revise its proposal to satisfy
   the 	District&#8217;s requirements;
   
   
   
   	(c)	Attempt to resolve any uncertainties concerning the technical proposal
   and 	other terms and conditions of the proposal;
   
   
   
   	(d)	Resolve any suspected mistakes by calling them to the offeror&#8217;s
   attention 	as specifically as possible without disclosing information
   concerning other 	offerors&#8217; proposals or the evaluation process; and
   
   
   
   	(e)	Provide each offeror a reasonable opportunity to submit any price,
   	technical, or other revisions to its proposal that may result from the
   	discussions.

   1638.3. The contracting officer shall not assist an offeror to bring its
   proposal up to the level of other proposals through successive rounds of
   discussion, such as pointing out weaknesses resulting from the offeror&#8217;s
   lack of diligence, competence, or inventiveness in preparing the proposal.

   1638.4. The contracting officer shall not disclose technical information
   pertaining to a proposal that results in improvement of a competing proposal.

   1638.5. The contracting officer shall not indicate to an offeror a price it
   must meet to obtain further consideration, advise an offeror of its standing
   relative to another offeror, or otherwise furnish information about any other
   offeror&#8217;s prices.

   1638.6. If, after discussions have begun, an offeror originally in the
   competitive range is no longer considered to be among the most highly rated
   offerors being considered for award, that offeror may be eliminated from the
   competitive range whether or not all material aspects of the proposal have
   been discussed, or whether or not the offeror has been afforded an opportunity
   to submit a proposal revision.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 1136 (February 1, 2013).
