                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS BEFORE ISSUING A REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (§ 27-1615)

1615.1. The contracting officer may issue a request for qualifications (RFQ)
   before an RFP when the contracting officer determines that the RFQ process
   will be the most advantageous to the District. This selection process will
   determine which prospective contractors are qualified to receive RFPs and
   submit responses to the RFPs, based on financial and professional
   responsibility criteria established by the contracting officer for
   pre-qualification of a prospective contractor.

   1615.2. The District shall issue an RFQ to firms to determine whether they
   have the 			expertise, ability, and entrepreneurship to:
   
   
   
   			(a)	Assemble the labor and capital necessary for the completion of the
   					procurement;
   
   
   
   			(b)	Manage all components of the procurement; and
   
   
   
   			(c)	Complete the procurement in a timely manner while serving the
   District’s 				stated policy objectives.

   1615.3. The contracting officer shall give public notice of the RFQ in
   accordance with 			Chapter 13 of this title.

   1615.4. The RFQ shall invite interested prospective contractors to respond in
   writing with a statement of their qualifications to perform the required
   services, including financial and professional responsibility information. The
   RFQ shall provide, at a minimum:
   
   
   
   			(a)	A detailed description of the statement of work;
   
   
   
   			(b)	The District’s intent of the project;
   
   
   
   				(c)	The selection process, schedule, and criteria to be used by the
   District in 					determining which prospective contractors are qualified;
   
   
   
   			(d)	Submission requirements and evaluation criteria that will be used to
   				determine whether each prospective contractor is qualified;
   
   
   
   			(e)	The deadline for submission of information; and
   
   
   
   (f)	A statement of the number of the highest ranked offerors determined to be
   most qualified that will be selected to submit proposals in the subsequent
   RFP.

   1615.5. The contracting officer may conduct oral or written discussions with
   prospective contractors who submitted responses to the RFQ.  If the
   contracting officer conducts discussions, he or she shall conduct discussions
   with all prospective contractors who submitted responses to the RFQ.

   1615.6. The contracting officer may provide the information submitted by all
   prospective contractors in response to the RFQ to an evaluation panel who may
   recommend to the contracting officer, based upon the panel’s analysis of the
   information according to the criteria set forth in the RFQ, whether or not a
   prospective contractor should be among the highest ranked offerors to proceed
   to the second step.

   1615.7. The contracting officer shall determine the financial and professional
   responsibility of each prospective contractor and rank them in writing from
   the most qualified to the least qualified on the basis of the information
   provided.

   1615.8. The contracting officer shall then issue an RFP in accordance with the
   provisions 			of Section 1612 to at least three (3) of the highest-ranked
   offerors who have been 			determined most qualified. The RFP shall not be
   advertised in newspapers or 			publicly posted.

   1615.9. If there are fewer than three (3) offerors, the contracting officer
   may issue the 			RFP to the highest-ranked offeror(s).

   1615.10. The contracting officer’s decision regarding how many proposals to
   solicit shall not be subject to review.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1455 (February 26, 1988); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 1136 (February 1, 2013).
