                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 27-1699)

1699.1. When used in this chapter, the following words have the meanings
   ascribed:
   
   
   
   Base compensation: A fixed monthly payment that the District pays the
   providers of employment services in support of the District’s TANF
   Employment Program for performing specific duties and delivering specific
   services.  Base compensation varies depending on the size of the provider’s
   not-employed PIT.
   
   
   
   Clarification &#8211; communication with an offeror for the sole purpose of
   eliminating minor irregularities, informalities, or apparent clerical mistakes
   in the proposal. It is achieved by explanation or substantiation, either in
   response to District inquiry or as initiated by the offeror.
   
   
   
   Deficiency &#8211; a material failure of a proposal to meet a District
   requirement or a combination of significant weaknesses in a proposal that
   increase the risk of unsuccessful contract performance to an unacceptable
   level.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the Office of Contracting and Procurement
   (OCP) or the District of Columbia Chief Procurement Officer (CPO).
   
   
   
   Discussion &#8211; any oral or written communication between the District and
   an offeror (other than communications conducted for the purpose of minor
   clarification) whether or not initiated by the District, that involves
   information essential for determining the acceptability of a proposal, or
   provides the offeror an opportunity to revise or modify its proposal.
   
   
   
   Individual Responsibility Plans (IRP):  A written agreement developed jointly
   by a TANF customer and the providers of employment services in support of the
   District’s TANF Employment Program that acts as the customer’s roadmap to
   securing employment and becoming self-sufficient. The IRP outlines specific
   steps that the customer agrees and commits to take in order to address and
   remove barriers, and find and retain employment.
   
   
   
   Outcome-based compensation: A variable monthly payment that the District pays
   the providers of employment services in support of the District’s TANF
   Employment Program for achieving outcomes defined by the District.  The
   outcome-based payment varies depending on the number of payment points that
   the provider achieves and the volume of outcomes within each payment point.
   
   
   
   Payment point: Payment point refers to elements of the TANF employment
   services provider’s incentive compensation.  The compensation is structured
   to encourage the provider to deliver distinct results or outcomes. 
   Achievement of each outcome triggers a specific payment amount.  Payments
   points are independent of each other.  Consequently, it is feasible for the
   provider to achieve more than one (1) payment point for a given customer in
   any given month.
   
   
   
   Point-In-Time caseload (PIT): Also referred to as caseload, is the number of
   TANF customers (or cases) that the provider of employment services in support
   of the District’s TANF Employment Program is serving in a given period or at
   any given time.  The provider shall be managing two (2) types of PIT:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A not-employed PIT (such as a caseload of not-employed TANF customers); and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    An employed PIT (such as a caseload of employed customers).
   
   
   
   Price &#8211; cost plus any fee or profit applicable to the contract type.
   
   
   
   Solicitation – request for proposals (RFP), except as provided otherwise in
   § 1601.
   
   
   
   Technical analysis &#8211; the examination and evaluation by personnel having
   specialized knowledge, skills, experience, or capability in factors set forth
   in a proposal.
   
   
   
   Unsolicited proposal – a written proposal that is submitted to an agency on
   the initiative of the submitter for the purpose of obtaining a contract with
   the District that is not in response to a solicitation.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1465 (February 26, 1988); as
   amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DCR
   5199, 5208 (June 17, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 58 DCR 6411, 6420 (July 29, 2011); as amended by Final Rulemaking
   published at 60 DCR 1136 (February 1, 2013).
