                                  DC REGULATIONS

LATE PROPOSALS, LATE MODIFICATIONS, AND LATE WITHDRAWALS (ยง 27-1627)

1627.1. Any proposal or modification to proposal received at the location
   designated in 	the RFP after the time and date set for receipt of proposals
   shall be considered 	&#8220;late&#8221; unless it was received prior to the
   contract award and any of the following 	applies:
   
   
   
   	(a)	It was sent by registered or certified mail not later than five (5)
   calendar 	days before the date and time specified for receipt of offers;
   
   
   
   	(b) 	It was sent by mail and the contracting officer determines that the late
   	receipt was due solely to mishandling by the District after receipt at the
   	location specified in the RFP;
   
   
   
   	(c)	It was sent electronically by the offeror prior to the time and date
   specified 	and there is objective evidence in electronic form confirming that
   the offer 	was received prior to the date and time specified for receipt; or
   
   
   
   	(d)	 It was the only proposal received.
   
   
   
   1627.2 	Any request for withdrawal or request for modification of an offer
   received after the time and date set for receipt of proposals is late.

   1627.3. A late proposal, late request for modification, or late request for
   withdrawal shall not be considered, except as provided in this section.

   1627.4. A late modification of a successful proposal which makes its terms
   more 	favorable to the District shall be considered at any time it is received
   and may be 	accepted.

   1627.5. A late proposal, late modification of offer, or late withdrawal of
   offer that is not 	considered shall be held unopened, unless opened for
   identification, until after 	award and then retained with unsuccessful offers.

   1627.6. If any information received electronically is unreadable, the
   contracting officer immediately shall notify the offeror and permit the
   offeror to resubmit the unreadable portion of the information. The method and
   time for resubmission shall be prescribed by the contracting officer after
   consultation with the offeror, and documented in the contract file. The
   resubmission shall be considered as if it were received at the date and time
   of the original unreadable submission for the purpose of determining
   timeliness, provided the offeror complies with the time and format
   requirements for resubmission prescribed by the contracting officer.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1463 (February 26, 1988); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 1136 (February 1, 2013).
