                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEBRIEFINGS (§ 27-1648)

1648.1   	If a contract is awarded on a basis other than price alone, the
   contracting officer shall provide a debriefing for any unsuccessful offeror
   that submits a written request for a debriefing, unless the Director
   determines that to do so is not in the best interest of the District.

   1648.2. If a debriefing is held, the information provided shall include, at a
   minimum:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The District’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in
   the unsuccessful offeror’s proposal;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The overall evaluated cost or price (including unit prices), the numeric
   technical rating, if applicable, of the successful offeror and the debriefed
   offeror, and past performance information on the debriefed offeror;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The overall numeric ranking of all offerors, if any ranking was developed by
   the procuring agency during the evaluation;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A summary of the rationale for award; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Reasonable responses to relevant questions about whether source selection
   procedures contained in the solicitation, applicable regulations and other
   applicable authorities were followed.

   1648.3. The debriefing shall not:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Include point-by-point comparisons of the debriefed offeror&#8217;s proposal
   with those of other offerors; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Reveal any information prohibited from disclosure by subsection 417 of the
   Procurement Practices Reform Act of 2010, effective April 8, 2011 (D.C. Law
   18-371; D.C. Official Code § 2-354.17) (2011 Repl.) or exempt from release
   under the District of Columbia Freedom of Information Act, effective March 25,
   1977 (D.C. Law 1-96; D.C. Official Code §§ 2-531 et seq.) (2011 Repl.),
   including:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Information which has been designated as confidential and proprietary by an
   offeror;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Trade secrets and commercial or financial information where disclosure would
   impair the competitive position of an offeror, including cost breakdowns,
   profit, indirect cost rates, and similar information;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Inter-agency or intra-agency memoranda or letters which would not be available
   by law to a party other than an agency in litigation with the agency,
   including the names and written comments of the members of the evaluation
   panel;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Information of a personal nature where the public disclosure thereof would
   constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, including
   offerors’ employees’ names, résumés, contact information, the names of
   offerors’ partners and the names of individuals providing reference
   information about an offeror&#8217;s past performance; and
   
   
   
   (5) 	Federal tax identification numbers or other information specifically
   exempted from disclosure by statute.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 1136 (February 1, 2013).
