                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR GREEN AREA RATIO (§ 11-3404)

3404.1. This section lists the submittal requirements for demonstrating
   compliance with a GAR requirement.

   3404.2. For the purposes of this section, the term Certified Landscape Expert
   means a person who is a:
   
   State of Virginia certified landscape architect;
   
   
   
   
   
   State of Maryland certified landscape architect;
   
   
   
   
   
   International Society of Arboriculture Certified Arborist;
   
   
   
   
   
   State of Maryland certified Professional Horticulturist; or
   
   
   
   
   
   Landscape Contractors Association MD-DC-VA Certified Landscape Technician;

   3404.3. Applicants shall submit a GAR score sheet with the GAR calculated for
   the given lot at the time of building permit application.

   3404.4. Applicants shall provide a landscape plan prepared by a Certified
   Landscape Expert that includes the following information:
   
   GAR elements called out by category and area, which may be provided as a part
   of the landscape plan or as a separate document;
   
   
   
   
   
   Lot dimension and size;
   
   
   
   
   
   Location and areas of all landscape elements with dimensions;
   
   
   
   
   
   Location, size, and species of all plants used to meet requirements;
   
   
   
   
   
   Both common and botanical names of all plant material;
   
   
   
   
   
   Identification of all existing trees that are to be preserved, with their
   location, trunk diameter at four feet, six inches (4 ft. 6 in.) above grade,
   canopy radius, and species;
   
   
   
   
   
   Plans indicating how preserved trees and other plants will be protected during
   demolition and construction;
   
   
   
   
   
   Location and dimensions of wheel stops, curbs, or other devices to protect
   landscaping for landscaped areas adjacent to driveways;
   
   
   
   
   
   A schematic irrigation and drainage plan and the size and depth of all plant
   containers for rooftop or container landscaping or areas to be irrigated with
   rainwater;
   
   
   
   
   
   Location and size of any trees to be removed;
   
   
   
   
   
   Specifications for soil improvement; and
   
   
   
   
   
   Signature of the Certified Landscape Expert who prepared the plans together
   with verification that plantings and other landscape elements meet the
   requirements of this chapter.

   3404.5. Applicants shall provide a landscape maintenance plan prepared and
   signed by a Certified Landscape Expert that describes how the plantings, water
   features and hardscape features will be cared for and maintained including:
   
   Soil preparation;
   
   
   
   
   
   Use of compost;
   
   
   
   
   
   Plant replacement;
   
   
   
   
   
   Irrigation;
   
   
   
   
   
   Weed and pest control; and 
   
   
   
   
   
   Control of noxious or invasive species.

   3404.6. The following modifications or substitutions to the landscape elements
   of an approved landscape plan require a plan revision and approval:
   
   Number of trees, shrubs, or groundcovers;
   
   
   
   
   
   Location of required plantings or landscape features;
   
   
   
   
   
   Substitution of species; or
   
   
   
   
   
   Revisions of any feature that could decrease the planting area or lower the
   GAR score.

   3404.7. Except as provided below, approved landscape elements shall be
   installed in accordance with the approved plan prior to the issuance of the
   certificate of occupancy.

   3404.8. Prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy, a landscape
   checklist must be signed by a Certified Landscape Expert, verifying that that
   landscaping was installed according to the building permit approved by DCRA.

   3404.9. The Zoning Administrator may grant a temporary certificate of
   occupancy when installation of the required landscaping is not currently
   possible due to weather, season or site construction subject to the condition
   that the required landscaping must be installed within four (4) months after
   the date the temporary certificate is issued.

   3404.10. The Zoning Administrator may grant up to two (2) extensions of a
   temporary certificate of occupancy, each for a four (4) month period based on
   the same conditions of  § 3404.9.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10077 (July 12, 2013).
