                                  DC REGULATIONS

LANDSCAPE ELEMENT CONDITIONS FOR GREEN AREA RATIO (§ 11-3403)

3403.1. No landscape element may be counted towards a property’s GAR unless
   it meets the applicable conditions stated in this section.

   3403.2. Plantings over the specified soil depths shall meet the required
   conditions listed in the Table of Landscape Elements and Multipliers in §
   3402.9.

   3403.3. Bioretention facilities shall be landscaped areas that receive
   rainwater from surrounding areas and use plants and soils to slow, filter, and
   infiltrate stormwater runoff.  Bioretention facilities include but are not
   limited to rain or rainwater gardens, bioretention planters, or linear cells
   or swales.  These do not include structures made of cement or concrete alone.

   3403.4. Trees shall meet the following conditions:
   
   All trees shall be at least two and one-half inches (2.5 in.) in diameter
   measured at a height four feet, six inches (4 ft. 6 in.) above grade when
   planted and shall be replaced if damaged or killed by any cause; and
   
   
   
   
   
   All trees shall meet the American Standard for Nursery stock, as set forth by
   the American Nursery and Landscape Association.

   3403.5. Vegetated walls shall meet the following conditions:
   
   The maximum calculated vertical dimension shall not exceed thirty feet (30
   ft.) unless the vegetated wall features a built-in growth medium;
   
   
   
   
   
   The area calculated for the vegetated wall features shall be fully covered
   within a period of two (2) to five (5) years from planting;
   
   
   
   
   
   The area calculated is the ground coverage area, not the total plant growth
   area;
   
   
   
   
   
   The walls shall be at least five feet (5 ft.) from a side or rear lot line;
   and 
   
   
   
   
   
   Where stormwater harvesting for irrigation is proposed, vegetated walls shall
   contain a connection to the proposed irrigation system.

   3403.6. Vegetated roofs shall meet the following conditions:
   
   Designs for vegetated roofs must include plans to provide supplemental water;
   
   
   
   
   
   Where stormwater harvesting for irrigation is proposed, vegetated roofs shall
   contain a connection to the proposed irrigation system; and
   
   
   
   
   
   The groundcover vegetation on a vegetated roof is not additionally eligible
   for groundcover value towards GAR requirements.

   3403.7. Water features shall meet the following conditions:
   
   Water features must use harvested rainwater for at least fifty percent (50%)
   of the annual flow; and
   
   
   
   
   
   The water features must be under water for at least six (6) months out of
   twelve (12). 
   
    3403.8	Enhanced tree growth systems shall meet the following conditions:
   
   Be at least twenty-four inches (24 in.) deep, under pavement, and adjacent to
   planting areas; and
   
   
   
   
   
   Be composed of soils that are not considered contaminated or compacted
   according to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
   Liability Act of 1980, approved December 11, 1980 (94 Stat. 2767; 42 USC §
   9601 et seq.).

   3403.9. Native plant species shall meet the following conditions:
   
   The plants are listed in the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Native Plants
   for Wildlife Conservation Landscaping: Chesapeake Bay Watershed guide; or
   
   
   
   
   
   The applicant provides two (2) references in current publications showing that
   the plant is native to the region; and  
   
   
   
   
   
   The plant is not listed on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s list of
   Plant Invaders of Mid-Atlantic Natural Areas.

   3403.10. Food cultivation shall meet the following conditions:
   
   All food cultivation areas must be easily accessible to at least one occupant
   of the building;
   
   
   
   
   
   All food cultivation areas must have a source of water that can reach all
   portions of the food cultivation area; and  
   
   
   
   
   
   The cultivation of animals for food is not eligible for GAR credits.

   3403.11. Harvesting stormwater for irrigation shall meet the following
   conditions:
   
   If the irrigation type is spray, applicants shall follow treatment standards
   set forth in the current District Department of Environment’s Stormwater
   Management Guidebook; and
   
   
   
   
   
   If the irrigation type is drip, no additional treatment of stormwater is
   required. 
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10077 (July 12, 2013).
