                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT OF HEARINGS (ยง 7-307)

307.1. All hearings before a hearing examiner shall be conducted so as to
   ensure the protection of the substantial rights of the parties and the
   presentation of all relevant issues for consideration and incorporation in any
   decision.

   307.2. All facts used as the basis of a decision shall be clearly identified
   in the record.

   307.3. If any party fails without good cause to appear at the scheduled time
   of hearing, the hearing examiner may continue the hearing to another date and
   time or may order the taking of the testimony as is available and proceed with
   a determination of the appeal on the basis of the evidence then and there
   available; Provided, that all requirements imposed by the Act and this chapter
   are met.

   307.4. A case may be reopened by a party who did not attend a scheduled
   hearing only if the party gives written notice to the Director within ten (10)
   calendar days after the date of the hearing that his or her failure to attend
   the hearing was for reasons which constitute good cause, as determined by
   ยง316.4 of this chapter.

   307.5. A request for reopening received before the decision of the hearing
   examiner is mailed, shall be decided by the examiner before whom the case is
   pending.

   307.6. A request for reopening received after the decision of the hearing
   examiner was mailed to the party shall constitute an appeal to the Director,
   and the Director shall rule upon the request in connection with that appeal.

   307.7. Written notice of the request for reopening shall be given to each of
   the parties, and shall include the reasons for the request and a clear
   statement of appeal rights.

   307.8. If a request is allowed, the case shall be reopened, a new hearing
   shall be scheduled, and written notice of the new hearing shall be given to
   each of the parties.

   307.9. At any reopened hearing, each party shall be given the opportunity to
   object to the reopening.

   307.10. Each party shall have the right to do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	To present an affirmative case or defense by oral and documentary
   evidence;
   
   
   
   (b)	To submit rebuttal evidence; and
   
   
   
   (c)	To conduct cross-examination as may be required for a full and true
   disclosure of the facts.

   307.11. An official record of each hearing shall be maintained in each case,
   including, testimony exhibits. It shall not be necessary to make a
   transcription of the proceeding.

   307.12. Upon request, any claimant (or the claimant&#8217;s legal
   representative) shall be supplied with information from the record to the
   extent necessary for the proper presentation of the claim. The Director shall
   charge a fee to cover the cost for a transcription of a proceeding.

   307.13. Upon the written request of a party to an action, a subpoena may be
   issued pursuant to ยง13(a) of the Act to compel attendance of witnesses and
   the production of books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, or other records
   necessary for evidence in connection with a disputed claim.

   307.14. The parties to an appeal, with the consent of the hearing examiner to
   whom the case has been assigned, may stipulate the pertinent facts in writing.
   The hearing examiner to whom the case has been assigned, may stipulate the
   pertinent facts in writing. The hearing examiner may then decide the appeal on
   the basis of the stipulations or may set the appeal down for hearing and take
   further testimony.

   307.15. In accordance with ยง11(g) of the Act, witnesses (other than witnesses
   who are salaried employees of either the government of the United States or
   the District of Columbia) who are subpoenaed and who attend the hearing of any
   appeal shall be entitled upon application to receive five dollars ($5.00) for
   each day of attendance.
