                                  DC REGULATIONS

BYLAWS OF THE UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION BOARD (ยง 7-301)

301.1. The Chair shall be the chief executive officer of the Board and shall
   supervise its affairs, preside at its meetings and exercise such other powers
   and duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Act.

   301.2. In the absence of the Chair, his or her designee shall function as the
   Chair and also perform such other duties as shall be prescribed by the Chair
   or the Board.

   301.3. The Chair of the Board may when he or she deems it appropriate, and
   shall, upon the written request of any two (2) or more members, call a special
   meeting of the Board for the purposes of transacting any business designated
   in the call.

   301.4. The call for a special meeting may be hand delivered to each member at
   least two (2) days in advance of the meeting or may be mailed to the business
   or home address of each member at least five (5) days in advance of the
   meeting.

   301.5. At any special meeting, no business shall be considered other than that
   specified in the call.

   301.6. For the purpose of transacting business and conducting the affairs of
   the Board, a majority of the members shall constitute a quorum; Provided, that
   one (1) employee representative and one (1) employer representative is present
   at the meeting.

   301.7. All meetings except Executive sessions of the Board shall be open to
   the public. All actions or decisions of the Board shall be formally taken at a
   public meeting.

   301.8. Non-members shall be seated as spectators as far as the limitations of
   space and safety permit.

   301.9. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, at least ten (10) days
   advance notice shall be given for all meetings.

   301.10. Non-members of the Board, at the discretion of the Chair, shall be
   permitted to present propositions to the Board for consideration. Non-members
   shall not have the right to vote.

   301.11. The voting on all matters by the Board shall be by voice vote or by a
   show of hands, and the number of yeas and nays shall be entered in the
   minutes.

   301.12. Any member may request a roll call vote at which time the vote cast by
   each member shall be recorded and entered into the minutes.

   301.13. At the regular meetings of the Board, the following shall be the order
   of business:
   
   
   
   (a)	Roll Call;
   
   
   
   (b)	Reading and Approval of Minutes of Previous Meetings;
   
   
   
   (c)	Communications;
   
   
   
   (d)	Report of Chair;
   
   
   
   (e)	Report of Staff;
   
   
   
   (f)	Unfinished Business;
   
   
   
   (g)	New Business; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Adjournment.

   301.14. Each member of the Board and staff shall sit in a designated place so
   that they are clearly distinguished from others attending meetings.

   301.15. The Chair will normally invite public participants to make brief
   comments or ask questions during and before adjournment of each meeting.

   301.16. In all proceedings of the Board, Robert&#8217;s Rules of Order, Newly
   Revised, shall apply in all matters not expressly covered by this section or
   by contrary rule duly adopted.

   301.17. This section, constituting the bylaws of the Board, shall be amended
   only by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of its members at a regular
   meeting or a special meeting of which at least seven (7) days written notice
   has been given to all of the members.

   301.18. Any individual who wishes to present proposed additions, amendments,
   or repealers to the Board for consideration may do so by submitting a written
   copy of the proposal to the Chair. The proposals shall be submitted by the
   Chair to the Board at its next regular meeting or at an earlier time if deemed
   appropriate by the Chair.
