                                  DC REGULATIONS

REFUSAL OF TRAIUING REEMPLOYMENT SERVICES (ยง 7-314)

314.1. In accordance with ยง10(e) of the Act, the Director shall hold
   ineligible for benefits any otherwise eligible individual who fails without
   good cause to attend a training or retraining course; provided, that the
   course is recommended by the Director and the course is available at public
   expense.

   314.2. The Director shall hold ineligible for benefits any otherwise eligible
   individual who fails without good cause to participate in job counselling or
   other reemployment services; provided, that such individual has been
   identified as in need of such counselling or reemployment services through a
   profiling system established by the Director to identify individuals who will
   be likely to exhaust their regular benefits.

   314.3. The following shall not constitute good cause for failure to attend
   training or for refusal to participate in job counselling or other
   reemployment services.
   
   
   
   (a)	Refusal to attend at any time without strong compelling reason and excuse;
   
   
   
   (b)	Personal inconvenience;
   
   
   
   (c)	Personal dislike of curricula or teachers; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Personal dislike of job counselling, reemployment services, or counsellor;
   
   
   
   (e)	Disbarment from recommended training, job counselling, or reemployment
   services as a result of improper conduct or action on the part of a claimant.

   314.4. For purposes of this section, good cause for failure to attend training
   or participate in job counselling or other reemployment services includes, but
   is not limited to, the circumstances set forth in ยง316.4.

   314.5. The ineligibility from benefits for refusal of training or refusal to
   participate in job counselling or other reemployment services shall be imposed
   with respect to any week in which the failure occurred.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 1470 (March 22, 1996).
