                                  DC REGULATIONS

VOLUNTARY LEAVING (ยง 7-311)

311.1. Pursuant to ยง10(a) of the Act, the Director shall disqualify for
   benefits any individual who left his or her most recent work voluntarily
   without good cause connected with the work.

   311.2. In determining whether a leaving disqualifies an individual for
   benefits, it shall appear from the circumstances of a particular case that the
   leaving was voluntary in fact, within the ordinary meaning of the word
   &#8220;voluntary&#8221;.

   311.3. A leaving shall be presumed to be involuntary unless the claimant
   acknowledges that the leaving was voluntary or the employer presents evidence
   sufficient to support a finding by the Director that the leaving was
   voluntary.

   311.4. If it is established that a leaving was voluntary, the claimant shall
   have the responsibility of presenting evidence sufficient to support a finding
   by the Director of good cause connected with the work for the voluntary
   leaving.

   311.5. The circumstances which constitute good cause connected with the work
   shall be determined by the Director based upon the facts in each case. The
   test shall be, &#8220;what would a reasonable and prudent person in the labor
   market do in the same circumstances?&#8221;

   311.6. The following shall not constitute good cause connected with the work
   for voluntary leaving:
   
   
   
   (a)	Refusal to obey reasonable employer rules;
   
   
   
   (b)	Minor reduction in wages;
   
   
   
   (c)	Transfer from one type of work to another which is reasonable and
   necessary;
   
   
   
   (d)	Marriage or divorce resulting in a change of residence;
   
   
   
   (e)	General dissatisfaction with work;
   
   
   
   (f)	Resignation in order to attend school or training; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Personal or domestic responsibilities.

   311.7. Reasons considered good cause connected with the work for voluntary
   leaving include, but are not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Racial discrimination or harassment;
   
   
   
   (b)	Sexual discrimination or harassment;
   
   
   
   (c)	Failure to provide remuneration for employee services;
   
   
   
   (d)	Working in unsafe locations or under unsafe conditions;
   
   
   
   (e)	Illness or disability caused or aggravated by the work; Provided, that the
   claimant has previously supplied the employer with a medical statement; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Transportation problems arising from the relocation of the employer, a
   change in the primary work site, or transfer of the employee to a different
   work site; Provided, that adequate, economical, and reasonably distanced
   transportation facilities are not available.

   311.8. If an employee resigned under threat of imminent termination, the
   separation shall be considered a constructive discharge for misconduct and a
   determination shall be made by the Director in accordance with ยง312.

   311.9. RESERVED

   311.10. When an individual is temporarily separated from employment by reason
   of pregnancy and is unemployed within the meaning of the Act, able, available
   and actively seeking work, that individual may be entitled to benefits. A
   determination shall be made as to the separation issue but claimant shall not
   be automatically subject to disqualification for voluntarily quitting under
   ยง10(a) of the Act [Sec. 46-111(a), D.C. Code 1981, ed.]

   311.11. A voluntary quit because of pregnancy shall be treated like any other
   voluntary quit because of physical condition or disability. The claims
   examiner shall inquire into the claimant&#8217;s availability and availability
   for suitable work and make a determination regarding eligibility for benefits
   in accordance with the Act and this chapter.
