                                  DC REGULATIONS

COLLECTION PROCEDURES (§ 7-323)

323.1. At any time after an employer fails to file reports or pay
   contributions required by the Act, the Director shall inform the employer of
   such failing by mailing written notice of such failing to the employer&#8217;s
   last known address. Such notice shall be on forms of general applicability and
   shall include information regarding the quarters for which reports were not
   filed and the amount of contributions, interest, and penalties owed. Such
   notice shall demand filing of unfiled reports and payment of all sums owed
   within ten (10) calendar days from the date of mailing of the notice.

   323.2. If the employer fails to respond to the notice by filing reports and
   paying contributions, interest, and penalties, the Director may file liens,
   bring civil actions, or otherwise take any lawful action to compel the filing
   of reports and the payment of contributions, interest, and penalties.

   323.3. In cases where the Director determines that collection by levy,
   distraint, or other extraordinary process may be necessary, a Notice of
   Delinquency shall be served in person by the Director&#8217;s designee or by
   registered mail, return receipt requested, at the employer&#8217;s last known
   address. In the case of a Notice served by mail which is refused or otherwise
   not deliverable, the Director shall serve a second Notice of Delinquency by
   first class mail, postage prepaid, at the employer&#8217;s last known address.
   Such Notice of Delinquency shall be in addition to the general notice set
   forth in §323.1.

   323.4. The Notice of Delinquency shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement of the amount due for contributions plus interest and
   penalties;
   
   
   
   (b)	A demand for payment of the amount due;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement that the employer has ten (10) calendar days from the date of
   the receipt of the notice to respond to the Director as provided in this
   section; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement that at the end of the ten (10) calendar day period, the
   Director may attempt to collect the amount due by any means authorized by the
   Act and without further demand or notice to the employer.

   323.5. Within ten (10) calendar days from receipt of the Notice of
   Delinquency, the employer shall pay in full the amount due for contributions
   plus interest and penalties unless the employer agrees in writing to a payment
   schedule, approved by the Director, by which the employer will pay the amount
   due, together with interest and penalties, in regular installments.

   323.6. The ten (10) calendar day period during which an employer must respond
   to a Notice of Delinquency shall be computed as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The period shall begin to run on the day after the receipt of the notice
   by registered mail, return receipt requested; or on the fourth (4th) day after
   mailing of the notice by first class mail, postage prepaid;
   
   
   
   (b)	Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be counted except that if the
   last day for responding to a notice falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
   holiday, the time period shall end on the next day which is not a Saturday,
   Sunday, or legal holiday; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Responses which are mailed shall be deemed timely if postmarked before the
   expiration of the ten (10) day period.

   323.7. The Director may authorize an employer to pay delinquent amounts by
   regular monthly installments of such duration as will liquidate the
   delinquency in the shortest amount of time deemed reasonable by the Director.
   In determining whether to enter into an installment agreement, the Director
   shall consider:
   
   
   
   (a)	The amounts owed and age of the debt;
   
   
   
   (b)	The employer&#8217;s past history of payment and compliance with any prior
   installment payment plans;
   
   
   
   (c)	The employer&#8217;s financial condition and, particularly, the prospects
   that the employer will be able to fulfill its obligations under the
   installment plan; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any other factors which may be brought to the Director&#8217;s attention
   which might impact upon the employer&#8217;s ability to meet its installment
   obligations.

   323.8. In any installment payment agreement, the employer shall acknowledge
   that default in any installment payment or in any future filing of required
   reports or payment of contributions voids the agreement and the Director may
   institute any collection procedure permitted by the Act without further notice
   or demand to the employer.

   323.9. The Director may renegotiate an installment payment schedule if the
   Director determines that changed circumstances of the employer warrant changes
   to the plan. However, renegotiation of an installment schedule may not extend
   the time period beyond twenty-four (24) months from the conclusion date of the
   original agreement.

   323.10. If an employer fails to respond to the Director&#8217;s Notice of
   Delinquency and demand for payment of delinquent contributions, interest, and
   penalties, or if an employer fails to make a scheduled installment payment,
   the Director, without further notice or demand to the employer, may attempt to
   collect the overdue payments by any method authorized by the Act.

   323.11. The Director may levy an employer&#8217;s bank account(s) by serving a
   Notice of Levy on the appropriate officer of the bank.

   323.12. The Director may levy an employer&#8217;s contract(s) with any agency
   of the Government of the District of Columbia by serving a Notice of Levy on
   the official of said agency authorized to accept said Notice.

   323.13. The Director may levy upon property belonging to an employer by
   serving a Notice of Levy on the custodian of said property. Failure of the
   custodian to honor the levy shall result in the custodian&#8217;s liability
   for the delinquent contributions, interest, and penalties, as generally set
   forth in D.C. Code §47-1704 (1987).

   323.14. The Director shall cause the examination of any property seized
   pursuant to §323.13 to determine its condition, and shall keep records of
   condition, storage location, and any other actions necessary to maintain the
   property prior to sale.

   323.15. An employer whose property has been seized pursuant to §323.13 may
   redeem the property prior to the time it is sold by paying the Director the
   full amount of delinquent contributions, interest, and penalties owed and any
   costs incurred by Director in seizing and storing the property.

   323.16. No earlier than ten (10) calendar days following seizure of property
   pursuant to §323.13, the Director shall commence the process to sell the
   property, as generally set forth in D.C. Code §47-1702 (1987). If the
   Director determines that adjournment of the sale will best serve the interest
   of the District Unemployment Fund (as defined by section 6 of the Act), the
   Director shall have the power to adjourn the sale until such time as the
   Director determines that the best interest of the District Unemployment Fund
   would be served by continuation of the sale of the property.

   323.17. The proceeds of any sale of property under §323.16 shall be allocated
   as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Costs of the sale, including costs of seizing, storing, advertising, and
   auctioneer fees;
   
   
   
   (b)	Delinquent penalties, interest, and contributions in that order; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Any excess funds remaining after the two foregoing provisions have been
   complied with shall be forwarded to the employer from whom the property was
   seized.

   323.18. The Director shall issue a Certificate of Sale to the purchaser of
   property at the sale and shall prepare ownership documents for property
   conveyed by sales made pursuant to §323.16. All property shall be sold
   &#8220;as is&#8221; and &#8220;where is&#8221; without any guarantee or
   warranty express or implied. The Director shall sell only the right, title,
   and interest of the delinquent employer in the property, and the
   employer&#8217;s interest will be offered subject to any prior outstanding
   mortgages, encumbrances, or other liens.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 8833 (December 23,
   1988)
