                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRIBUTION RATE REVIEW (ยง 7-322)

322.1. In accordance with ยง3(c) (10) of the Act, the Director shall appoint a
   Contribution Rate Review Committee to hear and decide appeals by employers
   from contribution rate determinations.

   322.2. Requests for review and redetermination of contribution rate
   determinations shall be filed within thirty (30) days after the mailing of
   notice of rate determinations to an employer&#8217;s last known address or
   within thirty (30) days after delivery of the notice in the absence of
   mailing.

   322.3. The Director may voluntarily adjust the contribution rate determination
   upon receipt of a request for review.

   322.4. If it is not apparent from the employer&#8217;s account that an
   adjustment is appropriate, the Director shall grant an opportunity for hearing
   before the Contribution Rate Review Committee.

   322.5. The Contribution Rate Review Committee shall consist of three (3)
   employees of the Director. The composition of the Committee shall be as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	One (1) member shall have knowledge of the employer accounting process;
   
   
   
   (b)	One (1) member shall have knowledge of the overall financial accounting
   system; and
   
   
   
   (c)	One (1) member shall have knowledge of the legal aspects of the employer
   contribution process.

   322.6. The decision of the Contribution Rate Committee shall be in writing and
   shall be supported by substantial evidence in the record.

   322.7. The decision of the Contribution Rate Committee shall be the final
   agency action, shall be written, and shall be supported by substantial
   evidence in the record.

   322.8. Judicial review of the decision of the Contribution Rate Review
   Committee may be sought by filing an application for review with the District
   of Columbia Court of Appeals within fifteen (15) days after the mailing or
   receipt of notice of the decision.
