                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPERVISED PRACTICE OF GRADUATE NURSES (ยง 17-5512)

5512.1. A graduate nurse may practice practical nursing only in accordance
   with the Act and this chapter.

   5512.2. An individual may be authorized to engage in the supervised practice
   of practical nursing, as a graduate nurse, without a District of Columbia
   license if the individual:
   
   
   
   (a)	Graduated from a nursing program pursuant to ยง 5502.1, or has met the
   requirements set forth in ยง 5503;
   
   
   
   (b)	Has not failed the NCLEX-PN examination; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Has an initial application pending for licensure by examination in the
   District of Columbia.

   5512.3. A person who has been denied a license, disciplined, convicted of an
   offense that bears directly upon his or her fitness to be licensed, or who has
   such an action pending in the District of Columbia or another jurisdiction
   shall not practice pursuant to this section unless first authorized by the
   Board in writing.

   5512.4. Within five (5) business days after the application for licensure by
   exam has been received by the Board&#8217;s staff, the Board&#8217;s staff
   shall, at the request of the applicant, issue a supervised practice letter to
   the applicant to document that his or her application is pending and that he
   or she is authorized to practice under the Act and this chapter. The practice
   letter is not renewable and shall expire:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ninety (90) days from the date of issuance;
   
   
   
   (b)	Upon notification that the applicant has failed the NCLEX examination;
   
   
   
   (c)	Upon receipt of written notice from the Board that the application for
   licensure has been denied, whichever date is the earliest.

   5512.5. Upon receipt of the practice letter, the graduate nurse shall inform
   employers of the date of expiration of the letter and shall immediately cease
   professional nursing practice on that date or upon receipt of written notice
   from the Board that the application for licensure has been denied, whichever
   date is the earliest. The graduate nurse thereafter may practice in a
   non-professional healthcare occupation, until receipt of a license or issuance
   of a license number.

   5512.6. Only a registered nurse licensed under the Act, who is a supervisor,
   shall be authorized to supervise the practice of practical nursing by a
   graduate nurse.

   5512.7. All supervised practice of a graduate nurse shall take place under
   general or immediate supervision.

   5512.8. A graduate nurse who practices pursuant to this section shall only
   practice at a hospital, long-term care facility, a health facility operated by
   the District or federal government, or other health care facility considered
   appropriate and approved by the Board.

   5512.9. A graduate nurse shall not be eligible to practice practical nursing
   in any of the following settings;
   
   
   
   (a)	Correctional Facility;
   
   
   
   (c)	Dialysis Center;
   
   
   
   (c)	Home Health Agency;
   
   
   
   (d)	Community Residential Facility;
   
   
   
   (e)	Nursing Staffing Agency;
   
   
   
   (f)	Medical Group Practice;
   
   
   
   (g)	School, (as a school nurse); and
   
   
   
   (h)	Any other setting that does not meet the requirements of ยง 5512.8.

   5512.10. A graduate nurse practicing under this section shall not assume
   administrative or technical responsibility for the operation of a nursing
   program, unit, service, or institution.

   5512.11. A graduate nurse shall identify himself or herself as such before
   engaging in the supervised practice of practical nursing. A student shall wear
   a picture identification badge with lettering clearly visible to the client
   bearing the name of the student and the position title.

   5512.12. A graduate nurse shall not receive compensation of any nature,
   directly or indirectly, from a client or client&#8217;s family member, except
   for a salary based on hours worked under supervision.

   5512.13. The supervisor shall be fully responsible for the practice by a
   graduate nurse during the period of supervision and may be subject to
   disciplinary action for violations of the Act or this chapter by the graduate
   nurse.

   5512.14. The Board may deny an application for licensure by, or take other
   disciplinary action against, a graduate nurse who is found to have violated
   the Act or this chapter. The Board may, in addition to any other disciplinary
   actions permitted by the Act, revoke, suspend, or restrict the privilege of
   the graduate nurse to practice.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 632, 640 (January 20, 1989); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 701 (January 26, 2007).
