                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPERVISED PRACTICE OF APPLICANTS FOR LICENSURE BY ENDORSEMENT (ยง 17-5513)

5513.1. An applicant may practice practical nursing only in accordance with
   the Act and this chapter.

   5513.2. An applicant for licensure by endorsement shall be authorized to
   engage in the supervised practice of practical nursing in the District of
   Columbia without a District of Columbia license if the applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is currently licensed, in good standing, as a practical nurse under the
   laws of a state or territory of the United States;
   
   
   
   (b)	Is a graduate of a program approved in accordance with ยง 5502.1, or can
   demonstrate competency in English pursuant to ยง 5505.3; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Has an initial application pending for licensure by endorsement in the
   District of Columbia.

   5513.3. A person who has been denied a license, disciplined, convicted of an
   offense that bears directly upon his or her fitness to be licensed, or who has
   such an action pending in the District of Columbia or another jurisdiction
   shall not practice pursuant to this section unless first authorized by the
   Board in writing.

   5513.4. Within five (5) business days after the application for licensure by
   endorsement has been received by the Board&#8217;s staff, the Board&#8217;s
   staff shall issue a practice letter to the applicant to document that his or
   her application is pending and that he or she is eligible to practice under
   the Act and this chapter. The practice letter is not renewable and shall
   expire:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ninety (90) days from the date of issuance; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Upon receipt of written notice from the Board that the application for
   licensure has been denied, whichever date is the earliest.

   5513.5. Upon receipt of the practice letter, the applicant shall inform
   employers of the date of expiration of the letter and shall immediately cease
   professional nursing practice in the District on that date or upon receipt of
   written notice from the Board that the application for licensure has been
   denied, whichever date is the earliest. The applicant thereafter may practice
   in a non-professional healthcare occupation, until receipt of a District of
   Columbia license to practice practical nursing.

   5513.6. Only a registered nurse licensed under the Act, who is a supervisor,
   may be authorized to supervise the practice of practical nursing by an
   applicant.

   5513.7. All supervised practice of an applicant shall take place under general
   or immediate supervision.

   5513.8. An applicant shall not receive compensation of any nature, directly or
   indirectly, from a client or client&#8217;s family member, except for a salary
   based on hours worked under supervision.

   5513.9. The supervisor shall be fully responsible for the practice by an
   applicant during the period of supervision and may be subject to disciplinary
   action for violations of the Act or this chapter by the applicant.

   5513.10. The Board may deny an application for licensure by, or take other
   disciplinary action against, an applicant who is found to have violated the
   Act or this chapter. The Board may, in addition to any other disciplinary
   actions permitted by the Act, revoke, suspend, or restrict the privilege of
   the applicant to practice.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 701 (January 26, 2007).
