                                  DC REGULATIONS

SCOPE OF PRACTICE (ยง 17-5514)

5514.1. The practice of practical nursing means the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The performance of actions of preventive health care, health maintenance,
   and the care of persons who are ill, injured, or experiencing alterations in
   health processes at the direction of the delegating or supervisory registered
   nurse; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The basic knowledge, judgment, and skills in nursing procedures gained
   through successful completion of an approved educational program in practical
   nursing.

   5514.2. A practical nurse shall accept only those assigned nursing activities
   and responsibilities as set forth in the Act and this chapter, which the
   practical nurse can safely perform. That acceptance shall be based on the
   following requirements in each practice setting which shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	The qualifications of the practical nurse in relation to the
   client&#8217;s needs and the integrated plan of care, including:
   
   
   
   (1)	Basic education and preparation of the practical nurse; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Knowledge and skills subsequently acquired through continuing education
   and practice.
   
   
   
   (b)	The degree of supervision by a registered nurse;
   
   
   
   (c)	The stability of each of the clients&#8217; condition;
   
   
   
   (d)	The complexity and frequency of nursing intervention to address the needs
   of the client or client group;
   
   
   
   (e)	The accessible resources within the agency or facility; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The established policies, procedures, standards of practice, and
   communication channels, which lend support to the model of nursing services
   offered by the agency or facility.

   5514.3. The practice of practical nursing shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Participating in the performance of the ongoing comprehensive nursing
   assessment process of the client&#8217;s biological, physiological, and
   behavioral health, including the client&#8217;s reaction to an illness,
   injury, and treatment regimens by collecting data and performing focused
   nursing assessments;
   
   
   
   (b)	Recording and reporting the findings and results of the ongoing nursing
   assessment process;
   
   
   
   (c)	Participating in the development and modification of the client-centered
   plan of care;
   
   
   
   (d)	The administration of medication and treatment as prescribed by a legally
   authorized health care professional, licensed in the District of Columbia, and
   that is within the scope of practice of a practical nurse;
   
   
   
   (e)	Implementing appropriate aspects of the integrated plan of care in which
   the practical nurse is knowledgeable, skilled, and competent to perform and
   that is within the scope of practice of the practical nurse;
   
   
   
   (f)	Participating in the nursing care management through assigning and
   directing nursing interventions that may be performed by unlicensed, trained
   personnel;
   
   
   
   (g)	Participating in the evaluation of the client response and outcome to
   interventions;
   
   
   
   (h)	Promoting and maintaining a safe and therapeutic environment;
   
   
   
   (i)	Participating in health teaching and counseling to promote, attain, and
   maintain the optimum health level of the client;
   
   
   
   (j)	Communicating and collaborating with other health care team members and
   other professionals;
   
   
   
   (k)	Monitoring intravenous infusion;
   
   
   
   (l)	Inserting nasogastic tubes; and
   
   
   
   (m)	Other acts or services which are beyond the basic education of a practical
   nurse as approved by the Board. The acts or services shall be commensurate
   with the practical nurse&#8217;s experience, continuing education, and
   demonstrated competencies.

   5514.4. A practical nurse shall not:
   
   
   
   (a)	Function as a director of nursing or as an administrator of nursing;
   
   
   
   (b)	Supervise the clinical practice of a registered nurse;
   
   
   
   (c)	Administer the following medications:
   
   
   
   (1)	Investigational or toxins;
   
   
   
   (2)	Antineoplastic agents;
   
   
   
   (3)	Anesthesia or conscious sedation;
   
   
   
   (4)	Hypnotics;
   
   
   
   (5)	Oxytocics; or
   
   
   
   (6)	Medications by way of intrathecal or epidural route;

   5514.5. A practical nurse may administer medications intravenously if the
   following conditions are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Administrator for Nursing Services has developed policies, procedures,
   and practice standards governing the practice of medication administration by
   practical nurses and established specific criteria for use when approving
   medications for intravenous administration by practical nurses;
   
   
   
   (b)	The practical nurse has successfully completed an educational program for
   intravenous medication administration;
   
   
   
   (c)	The practical nurse has been evaluated and validated for clinical
   competency in intravenous medication administration; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The practical nurse administers the approved medications under the general
   supervision of a licensed, registered nurse.

   5514.6. A practical nurse shall not:
   
   
   
   (a)	Administer any medications prohibited under ยง 5514.4(d); or
   
   
   
   (b)	Perform intravenous therapy or administer any intravenous medications in
   home care settings or community based residential care settings.

   5514.7. A practical nurse shall only administer medications which have been
   approved by the Administrator for Nursing Services.

   5514.8. A practical nurse may perform infusion therapy upon successfully
   completing an approved program of infusion therapy approved by the Board and
   if the following requirements are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Administrator of Nursing Services has developed policies, procedures
   and practice standards which govern the practice of infusion therapy;
   
   
   
   (b)	The supervisor maintains documentation to validate the competency of the
   practical nurse; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A registered nurse is present in the facility or on the unit when the
   practical nurse is performing infusion therapy.

   5514.9. A practical nurse may perform the following infusion therapy acts:
   
   
   
   (a)	Insertion of a peripheral intravenous catheter that is no more than three
   (3) inches in length;
   
   
   
   (b)	Discontinuing peripheral intravenous catheters that are no more than three
   (3) inches in length;
   
   
   
   (c)	Initiation of prescribed intravenous fluids;
   
   
   
   (d)	Calculating and adjusting intravenous flow rate, including infusion pumps;
   
   
   
   (e)	Adding intravenous fluids to an established peripheral line. Fluids must
   be non-medicated, commercially prepared or prepared by a licensed pharmacist.
   Accepted fluids are limited to those fluids that are generally used as
   maintenance, and isotonic in nature;
   
   
   
   (f)	Administering pharmacy prepared medications;
   
   
   
   (g)	Insertion of heparin locks, including flushing with normal saline or
   heparin 100 units;
   
   
   
   (h)	Venipuncture or withdrawal of a blood specimen from a peripheral catheter
   site; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Changing of injection cap or intravenous tubing for peripheral lines only.

   5514.10. A practical nurse shall wear a picture identification badge with
   lettering clearly visible to a client bearing the name of the practical nurse
   and the title &#8220;Licensed Practical Nurse&#8221; or &#8220;L.P.N.&#8221;.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 701 (January 26, 2007).
