                                  DC REGULATIONS

STANDARDS OF CONDUCT (§ 17-8716)

8716.1. A person who is certified in the District of Columbia solely as an
   addiction 	counselor I or II and is either not licensed to practice medicine,
   psychology, or 	professional counseling pursuant to D.C. Official §
   3-1205.01, or not licensed as 	an advanced practice registered nurse pursuant
   to D.C. Official Code
   
   		§ 3-1206.01, or not licensed as an independent clinical social worker
   pursuant to 	D.C. Official Code § 3-1208.04, shall not perform psychotherapy
   or engage 	in the diagnosis or treatment of other mental health disorders.

   8716.2. A certified addiction counselor I or II shall adhere to standards set
   forth in the 	Code of Ethics as published from time to time by the NAADAC.

   8716.3. A certified addiction counselor I or II shall maintain confidentiality
   about a matter 	in which the client has utilized the services of the addiction
   counselor in a 	professional capacity.  This section shall not apply to:
   
   		(a)  	A case conference with other mental health professionals employed at
   the 				treatment facility, or to other participating providers, when and to
   the 				extent necessary to facilitate the delivery of professional services
   to the 				client;
   
   
   
   				(b) 	A case in which the client authorized in writing the addiction
   counselor I 				or II to reveal a communication;
   
   
   
   	(c)	A case where an immediate threat of serious physical harm to an
   	identifiable victim is communicated to the addiction counselor I or 			II by
   a client or where there is a bona fide emergency;
   
   
   
   				(d)       Evidence in criminal cases where the accused is charged with
   causing the 				death of, or inflicting injuries upon, a human being, and the
   disclosure is 				required in the interest of public justice;
   
   
   
   	(e)	Information released pursuant to an order by a court of competent
   
   		jurisdiction;
   
   
   
   (f)	Evidence relating to the mental competency or sanity of a child alleged to
   be delinquent, neglected, or in need of supervision in any proceeding before
   the Family Division of the District of Columbia Superior Court or the
   Department of Youth Rehabilitation Services;
   
   
   
   	(g)	Evidence in criminal or civil cases where a person is alleged to have
   	defrauded the District of Columbia or federal government in relation to
   	receiving or providing services under the District of 	Columbia medical
   	assistance program authorized by Title 19 of the Social Security Act,
   	approved July 30, 1965 (79 Stat. 343; 42 U.S.C. § 1396, et seq.); and
   
   
   
   				(h)	Proceedings conducted by the Board or the Office of Administrative
   				Hearings, where the disclosure of confidential communications is
   					necessary to defend against charges that the addiction counselor I or II
   has 			violated provisions of this chapter or 	the Act.

   8716.4. A certified addiction counselor I or II shall make personal reference
   as an 				“addiction counselor under the supervision of (name and license
   number 				of supervisor)” in all written and oral communications relating
   to the 				provision of addiction counseling services.

   8716.5. A certified addiction counselor I or II may not engage in, or give the
   				appearance of, practicing independently of the supervisor.
   
   
   
   8716.6             A certified addiction counselor I or II shall not
   discriminate against clients
   
   	or professionals based on race, religion, age, gender, disability, national
   ancestry, sexual orientation, economic condition, or any other protected
   categories listed by federal or state law.
   
   
   
   8716.7             A certified addiction counselor I or II shall be
   knowledgeable about the existence of any disability which a client has and
   shall make available physical, sensory, and cognitive accommodations that
   allow the client with the disability to receive services.
   
   
   
   8716.8            	A certified addiction counselor I or II who is aware of
   unethical conduct 				or unprofessional modes of practice by another
   registered addiction 				counselor I or II shall report such inappropriate
   behavior to the Board.

   8716.9. A certified addiction counselor I or II shall not offer services or
   use
   
   	techniques outside of his or her competency.
   
   8716.10        	A certified addiction counselor I or II shall seek appropriate
   treatment if he or she 			is impaired in any manner that negatively impacts
   his or her ability to perform 			counseling duties and shall not provide or
   offer to provide services until he or she 			has been deemed fit to practice
   by the treating health professional.

   8716.11. A certified addiction counselor I or II shall comply with all federal
   and District of 			Columbia laws governing the practice of addiction
   counseling.
   
   
   
   8716.12          	A certified addiction counselor I or II shall not claim,
   either directly or by
   
   	implication, professional qualifications or affiliations that he or she does
   not possess.
   
   
   
   8716.13           The promotion of the protection of the public health,
   safety, and welfare and the best interest of the client shall be the primary
   guides of a certified addiction counselor I or II in determining his or her
   conduct.
   
   
   
   8716.14           A certified addiction counselor I or II shall disclose his
   or her standards of
   
   				conduct and responsibilities to all clients.
   
   
   
   8716.15           A certified addiction counselor I or II shall terminate a
   counseling relationship 			when it is reasonably clear that the client is not
   benefiting from the relationship 			and shall take appropriate measures to
   ensure that that the client is referred to 			alternative care.
   
   
   
   8716.16           A certified addiction counselor I or II shall hold the
   welfare of the client
   
   	paramount when making any decisions or recommendations concerning referral,
   treatment procedures, or termination of treatment.
   
   
   
   8716.17           A certified addiction counselor I or II shall not use or
   encourage a client’s
   
   	participation in a demonstration, research, or other non-treatment activity
   when such participation would have potential harmful consequences for the
   client or when the client is not fully informed.
   
   
   
   8716.18           A certified addiction counselor I or II shall provide
   services in an environment 			that ensures the privacy and safety of the
   client at all times and ensure the 				appropriateness of service delivery.
   
   
   
   8716.19           If an addiction counselor I or II engages in an activity
   that may affect the privacy of his or her client, such as the recording of the
   clinical interview or the use of material for training or observation by
   another party, the counselor shall provide to the client information in
   writing regarding the client’s rights regarding confidentially, as part of
   informing the client about the counseling activity.  The counselor shall
   request the client to sign an acknowledgment attesting to the fact that such
   information has been provided.

   8716.20. A certified addiction counselor I or II shall adhere to all federal
   and 				District of Columbia laws regarding confidentiality and the
   counselor’s 				responsibility to report clinical information in specific
   circumstances to 				the appropriate authorities.
   
   
   
   8716.21           A certified addiction counselor I or II shall use clinical
   and other material 				in teaching or writing only when there is no
   identifying information used 				about the clients involved.
   
   8716.22          A certified addiction counselor I or II shall not engage in
   the following dual relationships:
   
   
   
   	(a)	Counseling a family member, friend, or close associate;
   
   
   
   (b)	Exploit a relationship with a current or former client for personal gain,
   including a social or business relationship;
   
   
   
   (c)	Engage in any type of sexual activity with a current or former client;
   
   
   
   (d)	Accept as a client anyone with whom they have engaged in sexual activity;
   or
   
   
   
   (e)	Negatively exploit relationships with coworkers, employees, student
   research participants, or volunteers.
   
   
   
   8716.23           A certified addiction counselor I or II shall refrain from
   offering or 				providing professional services to a client in counseling with
   another 				professional, except with the knowledge of the other professional
   or after 				the termination of the client’s relationship with the other
   professional.
   
   
   
   8716.24        	A certified addiction counselor I or II shall cooperate with
   duly constituted
   
          			professional ethics committees or licensing boards and promptly
   supply
   
   	necessary information unless prohibited by confidentiality laws or
   regulations or recognized codes of conduct.
   
   
   
   8716.25           A certified addiction counselor I or II shall inform each of
   his or her clients of all financial policies regarding the counseling.  The
   fact that such information has been provided shall be documented in the
   client’s chart. 
   
   8716.26        	A certified addiction counselor I or II shall not send or
   receive a commission or 			rebate or any other form of remuneration for
   referral of a client for professional 			services.
   
   8716.27           A certified addiction counselor I or II shall not accept a
   private fee for
   
   	professional work with a person who is entitled to such services without
   charge through an institution or agency unless the client is informed of such
   services and still requests private services.

   8716.28. A certified addiction counselor I or II shall not practice addiction
   counseling 	while using controlled substances, alcohol, or any other chemical
   agents which 	impair the ability to practice.

   8716.29. A certified addiction counselor I or II shall urge chemically
   impaired colleagues 			to seek treatment, if possible.

   8716.30. A certified addiction counselor I or II with first-hand knowledge
   that a colleague 	is practicing addiction counseling when impaired by
   controlled substances, 	alcohol, or other chemical agents shall report such
   knowledge to the Board.

   8716.31. A certified addiction counselor I or II shall not offer or provide to
   a client
   
   			a controlled substance, alcohol, or any other chemical agent.

   8716.32. A certified addiction counselor I or II who has a mental impairment
   which affects 	his or her ability to practice safely, or becomes impaired in
   anyway that may 	negatively impact services being provided to a client, shall
   limit his or her 	services provided to those determined appropriate in
   consultation 	and advice 	from a qualified mental health professional.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 11937, 11952 (December
   17, 2010).
