                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 17-8799)

8799.1. The definitions in § 4099 of chapter 40 of this title are
   incorporated by reference into and are applicable to this chapter.

   8799.2. As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
   
   	ascribed:
   
   
   
   			Alcohol abuse – the use of an alcoholic beverage which impairs the
   physical, 				mental, emotional, or social well-being of the user.
   
   
   
   			Board – the Board of Professional Counseling, established by § 213 of
   the Act 				(D.C. Official 	Code § 3-1202.13).
   
   
   
   			Client – an individual who has applied for or been given a diagnosis or
   treatment 				for alcohol or 	drug abuse at a federally assisted program and
   includes any 				individual who, after arrest on a criminal charge, is
   identified as an alcohol 				or drug abuser in order to determine that
   individual’s eligibility to 						participate in a program.
   
   
   
   			Co-occurring disorder – the presence of concurrent psychiatric or medical
   				disorders in combination with a substance abuse disorder.
   
   
   
   			Diagnosis – a reference to an individual’s alcohol or drug abuse or to
   a condition 			which is identified as having been caused by that abuse that is
   made for 				the purpose of treatment or referral for treatment.
   
   
   
   			Disclose (disclosure) – a communication of a client’s identifying
   information, the 			affirmative verification of another person’s
   communications of a client’s 					identifying information, or the
   communication of any information from 					the record of a client who has been
   identified.
   
   
   
   			Direct supervision – supervision in which a supervisor is physically
   present, or 			within an immediate distance, such as on the same floor, and
   available to 				respond to the needs of the addiction counselor or the
   client.
   
   
   
   			Drug abuse – the use of a psychoactive substance for other than
   
   			medicinal purposes which impairs the physical, mental, emotional, or
   
   			social well-being of the user.
   
   
   
   			Dual relationships –a situation where multiple roles exist between an
   addiction 			counselor and a client.  Examples are when the client is also a
   student, 				friend, family member, employee, or business associate of the
   addiction 				counselor.
   
   
   
   			Emancipated – a minor who is living separate and apart from his or her
   parent(s) 				or legal guardian, with or without the consent of the parent(s)
   or legal 					guardian and regardless of the duration of such separate
   residence, and 					who is managing his or her own personal and financial
   affairs, regardless 					of the source or extent of the minor’s income.
   
   
   
   			Federal assistance (assisted) – an alcohol abuse or drug abuse program
   that is 			being carried out under a license, certification, registration, or
   other 				authorization granted by a department or agency of the United
   States, 				including but not limited to:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Certification of provider status under the Medicare program;
   
   
   
   (b)	Authorization to conduct methadone maintenance treatment 		pursuant to 21
   CFR § 291.505;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Registration to dispense a substance under the District of Columbia 	Uniform
   Controlled Substances Act of 1981, effective August 5, 		1981 (D.C. Law 4-29;
   D.C. Official Code § 48-901.01 et seq.), to 		the extent the controlled
   substance is used in the treatment of 		alcohol or drug abuse; or
   
   
   
   		(d)	Is supported by funds provided by a department or agency of the
   				United 	States by being:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A recipient of federal financial assistance in any form, including financial
   assistance which does not directly pay for the alcohol or drug abuse
   diagnosis, treatment, or referral activities; or
   
   
   
   		(2)	Conducted by a District of Columbia department or agency 					which,
   through general or special revenue sharing or other 					forms of assistance,
   receives federal funds which could be, 					but are not necessarily, spent for
   the alcohol of drug abuse 					program.
   
   
   
   		General supervision – supervision in which the supervisor is available to
   				the supervisee either:
   
   
   
   	(a)	In person; or
   
   
   
   	(b)	By a communications device, if the supervisor is located on the same
   	premises as the supervisee.
   
   
   
   		Minor – a person under eighteen (18) years of age, but not including a
   person 	who is emancipated or who is married.
   
   
   
   		Psychotherapy – the treatment of mental and emotional disorders through
   the use 	of psychological techniques designed to encourage communication of
   	conflicts and insight into problems, with the goal of attaining personality
   	growth 	and behavior modification.
   
   
   
   		Practice of addiction counseling – providing services, with or without
   	compensation, based on theory and methods of counseling, psychotherapy, 	or
   addictionology to a person who is experiencing cognitive, affective, or
   	behavioral psychosocial dysfunction as a direct or indirect result of
   addiction, 	chemical dependency, abuse of chemical substances, or a related
   	disorder.  The 	practice of addiction counseling includes: addiction
   	prevention; crisis 	intervention; diagnosis; referral; direct treatment;
   follow-up that is rendered to 	an individual, family, group, organization,
   school, or community that is 	adversely affected by an addiction or related
   disorder; and the education or 	training of a person in the field of addiction
   counseling.
   
   
   
   		Record – information, whether recorded or not, relating to a client
   received or acquired by an alcohol or drug program.
   
   
   
   			Treatment – the management and care of a client suffering from alcohol or
   drug 			abuse, a condition which is identified as having been caused by that
   abuse, 			or both, in order to reduce or eliminate the adverse effects upon
   the client.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 11937, 11957 (December
   17, 2010).
