                                  DC REGULATIONS

EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS (§ 17-8702)

8702.1. An applicant shall present proof to the Board that he or she has
   graduated with 				at least an Associate’s degree in a health or human
   services field, 						including but not limited to registered nursing, aging
   studies, criminal 					justice, health education, or mental health, from an
   accredited institution 					whose program is accredited by an entity
   recognized by the U.S. 						Department of Education.  The degree shall
   include 	the following 						coursework:
   
   
   
   	         	(a)	Understanding the dynamics of human behavior and
   
   			family systems – three (3) hours;
   
   
   
   	(b)	Signs and symptoms of substance abuse – three (3) hours;
   
   
   
   	                  	(c)	Recovery process, stages of change, relapse
   prevention, treatment
   
   		approaches, group dynamics and other adjunctive treatment 	recovery support
   groups, motivational interviewing, and models and 	theories of addiction –
   three (3) hours;
   
   
   
   	          	(d)	Ethics, rules and regulations – three (3) hours;
   
   
   
            	(e)	Professional identity in the provision of substance abuse
   services – 				three (3) hours;
   
   
   
   		(f)	Crisis intervention – three (3) hours;
   
   
   
   		(g)	Cultural factors and competencies in addiction – three (3) hours;
   
   
   
    	   (h)	Co-occurring disorders in interdisciplinary treatment – three (3)
   				hours;
   
   
   
   	(i)	Diagnostic and screening criteria in addictions – three (3) hours;
   		and
   
   
   
   	(j)	Psychopharmacology resources in the treatment of addictions – 				three
   (3) hours.

   8702.2. In lieu of the requirements for § 8702.1, an applicant for
   certification by waiver as 	an addiction counselor I, shall have two (2) years
   of supervised experience
   
   		obtained while registered as an addiction counselor with such registration
   
   		having been obtained on or after July 8, 2007, and shall have passed a
   	national examination deemed acceptable by the Board.

   8702.3. Any coursework listed in § 8702.1 that has not been taken in a
   degreed program 				shall be taken in a program approved by the National
   Association of Alcohol and 				Drug Abuse Counselors (NAADAC) or shall be
   taken at a college or university 				accredited by an entity recognized by the
   U.S. Department of Education.
   
   
   
   8702.4             As part of the certification process for an addiction
   counselor II, an applicant shall present proof to the Board that he or she has
   graduated with at least a Bachelor’s degree in a health or human services
   field, including but not limited to registered nursing, aging studies,
   criminal justice, health education, or mental health, from an accredited
   institution whose program is accredited by an entity recognized by the U.S.
   Department of Education.  The degree shall include the following coursework:
   
   
   
   				(a) 	Understanding the dynamics of human behavior and family
   
   					systems – three (3) hours;
   
   
   
   	(b)	Signs and symptoms of substance abuse – three (3) hours;
   
   
   
   	(c)	 Recovery process, stages of change, relapse prevention, treatment
   				approaches, group dynamics and other adjunctive treatment
   
   					recovery support groups, motivational interviewing, and models 						and
   theories of addiction – nine (9) hours;
   
   
   
   	(d)	Ethics, rules and regulations – three (3) hours;
   
   
   
   	(e) 	Professional identity in the provision of substance abuse services
   
   		– three (3) hours;
   
   
   
   	(f)	Crisis intervention – three (3) hours;
   
   
   
   	(g)	Substance abuse counseling treatment planning and research – three (3)
   	hours;
   
   
   
   	(h)	Counseling skills for individual and group, motivational interviewing
   &#8211; 	three (3) hours;
   
   
   
   	(i)	Cultural factors and competencies in addiction – three (3) hours;
   
   
   
   	(j)	Co-occurring disorders in interdisciplinary treatment – three (3)
   hours;
   
   
   
   	(k)	Diagnostic and screening criteria in addictions – three (3) hours; and
   
   
   
   	(l)	Psychopharmacology resources in the treatment of addictions – three (3)
   	hours.

   8702.5. Any coursework listed in § 8702.3 that has not been taken in a
   degreed
   
   			program shall be taken in a program approved by the NAADAC or shall
   
   			be taken at a college or university accredited by an entity recognized by
   
   			the U.S. Department of Education.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 11937, 11938 (December
   17, 2010).
