                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES (ยง 17-8709)

8709.1 	A continuing education credit required by this chapter must be earned
   as part of a continuing education program or activity approved by the Board.

   8709.2. The Board may, in its discretion, approve continuing education
   programs and activities that contribute to the professional development and
   competence in the addiction counseling field.

   8709.3. The continuing education shall be directly related to or supportive of
   addiction counseling practice.
   
   8709.4 	The Board may accept the following types of continuing education
   programs:   
   
   			(a)	An undergraduate or graduate course given at an accredited college
   			or university;
   
   			(b)	A seminar or workshop; 
   
   			(c)	An educational program given at a conference; 
   
   		(d)	In-service training;
   
   
   
   (e)	Training conducted and approved by the following professional
   
   		bodies:
   
   
   
   	(1)	National Board of Certified Counselors (NBCC);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Association of Social Work Boards;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	National Association of Social Workers;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	American Psychology Association;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	NAADAC;
   
   
   
   (6)	American Counseling Association; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	American Mental Health Counselors Association; and
   
   
   
   		(8)	Training conducted at an accredited health care facility.
   
    8709.5              To qualify for approval by the Board, any other
   continuing education training not 		mentioned in subsection 8709.4 shall:
   
   	(a) 	Be current in its subject matter;
   
   	(b) 	Be developed and taught by individuals with substantial background in
   	the subject matter being taught;
   
   
   
   	(c)       Be in an area of study approved by the Board, as set forth in ยง
   8710; and
   
   	(d) 	Be submitted to the Board for review at least sixty (60) days prior to
   the date of the program and be approved by the Board.
   
   
   
   8709.6 	The Board may issue and update a list of approved continuing education
   	programs. 
   
   8709.7 	An applicant shall have the burden of verifying whether a program is
   approved by the Board pursuant to this section prior to attending the program.
   
   
   8709.8 	The Board may approve continuing education credit for serving as a
   speaker on 	an addiction counseling matter at a conference, seminar, workshop,
   or in-service 	training.  The Board may grant credit for both preparation and
   presentation 	time. The maximum amount of credit that may be granted for
   preparation time 	shall be twice the amount of the associated presentation
   time.  The 	presentation 	must be completed during the period for which credit
   is claimed.  If an 	applicant has previously received credit in connection
   with a particular 	presentation, the Board shall not grant credit for a
   subsequent presentation unless 	it involves either a different subject or
   substantial additional research.

   8709.9. The Board may also approve continuing education credit for:
   
   
   
   	(a) 	Publication of an article related to addiction counseling in a
   				professional journal, publication of a book or a chapter in a book, 				or
   publication of a book review in a professional journal or 					bulletin;
   
   
   
   	(b)	New program development related to addiction counseling, which 	shall
   	count for a maximum of eight (8) hours.  New program development 	includes a
   new course, seminar, or workshop.  New 	courses shall be 	graduate or
   undergraduate level college or university courses;
   
   
   
   	(c)	Dissertation on an addiction counseling topic, which shall count for a
   	maximum of eighteen (18) hours.  Dissertation credit may only be counted
   	once; or
   
   
   
   	(d)      	Leadership positions, which shall count for a maximum of ten (10)
   	hours; 	provided, that to receive credit for the leadership position, the
   position 	shall last for a minimum of one (1) year after the date of the first
   	licensure.  The following leadership positions are acceptable for 	continuing
   education:
   
   
   
   (1)	Officer of state or national addiction counseling organization;
   
   
   
   (2)	Editor or reviewer of an addiction counseling journal;
   
   
   
   (3)	Member of a national ethics disciplinary review committee rendering
   licenses;
   
   
   
   (4)	Active member of an addiction counseling committee producing a substantial
   written product;
   
   
   
   (5)	Chair of a major addiction counseling conference or convention; or
   
   
   
   (6)	Other leadership positions with justifiable professional learning
   experiences.	
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 11937, 11946 (December
   17, 2010).
