                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES (ยง 17-7507)

7507.1. The Board may, in its discretion, approve continuing education
   programs and activities that contribute to the growth of an applicant in
   professional competence in the practice of massage therapy and which meet the
   other requirements of this section.

   7507.2. The Board may approve the following types of continuing education
   programs if the program meets the requirements of ยง 7507.3:
   
   
   
   (a)	An undergraduate or graduate course given at an accredited college or
   university;
   
   
   
   (b)	A seminar or workshop;
   
   
   
   (c)	An educational program given at a conference; and
   
   
   
   (d)	In-service training.

   7507.3. To qualify for approval by the Board, a continuing education program
   shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be current in its subject matter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be developed and taught by qualified individuals; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Meet one (1) of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	Be administered or approved by a recognized national, state, or local
   massage therapy organization, NCBTMB, health care organization, accredited
   health care facility, or an accredited college or university; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Be submitted by the program sponsors to the Board for review no less than
   sixty (60) days prior to the date of the presentation and be approved by the
   Board.

   7507.4. The Board may issue and update a list of approved continuing education
   programs.

   7507.5. An applicant shall have the burden of verifying whether a program is
   approved by the Board pursuant to this section prior to attending the program.

   7507.6. The Board may approve the following continuing education activities by
   an applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Serving as an instructor or speaker at a conference, seminar, workshop, or
   in-service training;
   
   
   
   (b)	Publication of an article in a professional journal or publication of a
   book or a chapter in a book or publication of a book review in a professional
   journal or bulletin related to massage therapy;
   
   
   
   (c)	Serving as a clinical instructor for students of massage therapy; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Participating in research as a principal investigator or research
   assistant.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 7716 (October 30, 1998); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8933 (September 14, 2007).
