                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 3-9900)

9900.1. The terms and phrases used in this title shall have the meanings set
   forth in the Election Act, the Ethics Act, and this section unless the text or
   context of the particular chapter, section, subsection, or paragraph provides
   otherwise.
   
   
   
   Activity &#8211; acts or functions of an agency or its authorized agent and
   the methods of performing them.
   
   
   
   Address &#8211; personal residence, principal place of business, campaign
   office, political committee office, and constituent-service program office.
   
   
   
   Administrative action – the execution of policies relating to persons or
   things as previously authorized, or required by official action of the agency,
   adopted at an open meeting of the agency.  The term does not include the
   deliberation of agency business or taking official action.  Examples of
   administrative action include the review of an agenda, setting witness
   testimony time limitations, and other such procedural discussions.
   
   
   
   Adversely affected – harm caused by an administrative action for which
   redress is necessary or required.
   
   
   
   Affidavit – a written statement sworn to by the affiant before a notary or
   officer authorized to administer oaths, which attests to the truth of the
   stated written matter.
   
   
   
   Aggrieved party – one who has been directly and detrimentally harmed by the
   outcome of an administrative decision or action.
   
   
   
   Anything of value  &#8211;  related to the monetary worth of something.
   
   
   
   Authorized committee – a principal campaign committee or any other political
   committee designated and authorized by a candidate, on the Statement of
   Candidacy Form, to support the candidate for election, receive contributions,
   or make expenditures on behalf of such candidate.
   
   
   
   Authorized officer or agent &#8211; one who has the actual or apparent
   authority to bind the principal.
   
   
   
   Ballot &#8211; a sheet of paper, or electronic card, filmstrip, or other
   device on which votes are recorded and stored.  See also, “official
   ballot.”
   
   
   
   Ballot card – see “ballot.”
   
   
   
   Ballot measure – a specific category of ballot question, including
   initiatives, referenda, and recalls.
   
   
   
   Ballot question – a direct vote in which the electorate is asked to either
   accept or reject a particular proposal, including ballot measures
   (initiatives, referenda, and recalls) and Charter Amendments.
   
   
   
   Board &#8211; the District of Columbia Board of Elections, under Title III of
   the “Board of Ethics and Government Accountability Establishment and
   Comprehensive Ethics Reform Amendment Act of 2011.”
   
   
   
   Board Employee &#8211; as distinguished from a &#8220;polling place
   official,” an individual who is employed by the District of Columbia Board
   of Elections to perform personal services for the Board either as a permanent,
   temporary, intermittent, or trainee employee and includes employees on leave,
   leave without pay, or on furlough or leave of absence for educational
   purposes.
   
   
   
   Board’s office – the Board’s principal place of business, and for
   purposes of registration only, any voter registration agency (VRA) or early
   voting center location that the Board shall designate.
   
   
   
   Bundling – the combining of one or more contributions by different donors to
   make a single contribution to a candidate for public office or to support an
   initiative, referendum, or recall measure in the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Business &#8211; any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
   nonprofit corporation, enterprise, franchise, association, organization,
   self-employed individual, holding company, joint stock, trust, or any legal
   entity through which business is conducted, whether for profit or not.
   
   
   
   Campaign Finance Act – the Campaign Finance Act of 2011 under Title III of
   the “Board of Ethics and Government Accountability Establishment and
   Comprehensive Ethics Reform Amendment Act of 2011,” as amended.
   
   
   
   Candidate – one who qualifies and seeks election for public office in the
   District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Candidate for election &#8211; an individual who has won a party primary; or
   who has survived the challenge period (D.C. Official Code §§ 1-1001.08(o)
   and 1-1101.01(2) (2011 Repl. &#038; 2012 Supp.)) after filing a petition to
   have his or her name printed directly on the general election ballot.
   
   
   
   Candidate for nomination &#8211; an individual who is seeking to win a party
   primary; or an individual who is seeking ballot access in a general or special
   election by having registered voters sign a nominating petition to have the
   candidate’s name printed directly on the ballot.
   
   
   
   Chairman – the Chairman of the District of Columbia Board of Elections.
   
   
   
   Close of business &#8211; 4:45 p.m. Monday through Friday, excluding District
   of Columbia legal holidays, unless otherwise indicated in this title.
   
   
   
   Commingling &#8211; the improper mixing of personal and campaign or other
   funds donated for a specific or limited purpose.
   
   
   
   Committee – an organized group consisting of a chairman and treasurer
   engaged for one of the following purposes:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   to nominate, elect, or defeat a candidate for public office;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   to solicit, accept, and expend funds to defray the costs of attorney fees, on
   behalf of a public officer;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   to solicit, accept and expend funds for the transition of the Mayor or
   Chairman of the Council;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   to explore or test the feasibility of an individual’s viability as a
   candidate for public office in the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   to plan, raise, and expend funds for inaugural celebration for a new Mayor  of
   the Council; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   to qualify an initiative, referendum, or recall measure for ballot access.
   
   
   
   Complainant – one who alleges a violation of District of Columbia campaign
   finance law or regulation.
   
   
   
   Constituent Service Fund – monetary resources authorized by law for use by
   the Mayor, Chairman and members of the DC Council to provide certain services
   to benefit the citizens of the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Contest &#8211; the aggregate of candidates who run against each other among
   themselves for a particular nomination or number of nominations, or a
   particular office or number of offices.  The write-in options for each of the
   positions to be filled by the election are also part of the contest.
   
   
   
   Contribution – the meaning provided in D.C. Official Code § 1161.01(10)(A).
   
   
   
   Council – the Council of the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Days &#8211; calendar days, unless stated otherwise.
   
   
   
   Director – the Director of Campaign Finance of the Board of Elections.
   
   
   
   D.C. Official Code &#8211; the 2001 Edition of the Code, as amended.
   
   
   
   Directly related &#8211; immediately or approximately connected to, allied to,
   or affiliated with.
   
   
   
   Domestic partner – the same meaning as provided in D.C. Official Code §
   32-701(3).
   
   
   
   Duly registered voter &#8211; a registered voter who resides at the address
   listed on the Board’s records.
   
   
   
   Effective date (of registration) – the date from which a registered
   voter’s information is valid.
   
   
   
   Election – means a primary, general, or special election held in the
   District of Columbia to nominate an individual as candidate for election to
   office, to elect a candidate for office, or to decide an initiative,
   referendum, or recall measure, including a convention or caucus of a political
   party held to nominate such candidate.
   
   
   
   Elected officials &#8211; the following local public officials:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Delegate to the United States House of Representatives from the District
   of Columbia, as provided for in the District of Columbia Delegate Act of 1970,
   effective September 22, 1970, as amended (84 Stat. 848, Pub. L. 91-405; D.C.
   Official Code § 1-401, et seq. (2006 Repl.));
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Mayor of the District of Columbia, as provided for in D.C. Official Code
   §§ 1-204.21 and 1-204.22 (2006 Repl.);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Chairperson and Members of the Council of the District of Columbia, as
   provided for in D.C. Official Code § 1-204.01 (2006 Repl.);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Members of the State Board of Education, as provided for in D.C. Official
   Code § 38-2651 (2012 Supp.);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Electors of President and Vice President of the United States and the
   officials of political parties as provided for in D.C. Official Code §
   1-1001.01 (2011 Repl.); and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Members of Advisory Neighborhood Commissions, as provided for in D.C. Official
   Code § 1-309.06 (2006 Repl. &#038; 2012 Supp.) and § 1-1001.02(13) (2011
   Repl. &#038; 2012 Supp.).
   
   
   
   Election Act &#8211; the District of Columbia Election Act, effective August
   12, 1955, as amended (69 Stat. 699; D.C. Official Code § 1-1001.01, et seq.
   (2011 Repl.)), which governs the administration of all elections in the
   District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Election Day worker – see “polling place official.”
   
   
   
   Election observer – an individual who has received proper credentials from
   the Board to witness the administration of elections, including members of
   nonpartisan or bipartisan, domestic or international organizations, who are
   not affiliated with a candidate or ballot measure.
   
   
   
   Election official – any employees of the Board and polling place officials,
   excluding poll watchers and election observers.
   
   
   
   Election year &#8211; the calendar year in which there is held an election,
   where a political committee is engaged in promoting or opposing a political
   party, nomination or election of an individual to office, or any initiative,
   referendum, or recall measure.
   
   
   
   Electronic filing &#8211; as provided by the Office of Campaign Finance in
   Chapters 30-40, the procedure by which filers may process required forms
   online though the world wide web at www.ocf.dc.gov.
   
   
   
   Eligible candidate &#8211; an individual who is not ineligible to be a
   candidate pursuant to D.C. Official Code § 1-1001.15(b) (2006 Repl.) and who
   meets or is capable of meeting those statutory requirements necessary to serve
   in a particular office by the date of the election in which he or she seeks
   the office.
   
   
   
   Employee &#8211; unless otherwise apparent from the context, a person who
   performs a function of the District of Columbia government and who receives
   compensation for the performance of such services, or a member of a District
   of Columbia government board or commission, whether or not for compensation.
   
   
   
   Entrusted position &#8211; an elective and public office which is a public
   trust in which the citizenry reposes special confidence in the officeholder
   for the execution of duties or services which inure to the benefit of the
   citizenry.
   
   
   
   Executive agency &#8211;  includes:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A department, agency, or office in the executive branch of the District of
   Columbia government under the direct administrative control of the Mayor;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The State Board of Education or any of its constituent elements;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The University of the District of Columbia or any of its constituent elements;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Board of Elections; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any District of Columbia professional licensing and examining board under the
   administrative control of the executive branch.
   
   
   
   Expenditure – the meaning provided in D.C. Official Code § 1161.01(21)(A).
   
   
   
   Exploratory Committee – any person, or group of persons, organized for the
   purpose of examining the feasibility of becoming a candidate for an elective
   office in the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Fair market value &#8211; the fair and reasonable cash price for which the
   property can be sold in the market at the time of alleged violation, or at the
   time of filing of the financial statement.
   
   
   
   Fictitious ballot – a ballot which shows the design and layout of a ballot
   in an upcoming election, and does not contain the names of nominees or
   candidates actually seeking office or ballot questions actually to appear on
   an official ballot.
   
   
   
   File, filed, and filing – delivery in person, electronically or by mail to
   the OCF by 5:30 p.m. of the prescribed date.
   
   
   
   FOIA- the District of Columbia Freedom of Information Act, which ensures
   disclosure of certain information relative to the conduct of the District of
   Columbia Government and its employees.
   
   
   
   Gift &#8211; a payment, subscription, advance, forbearance, rendering, or
   deposit of money, services, or anything of value, unless consideration of
   equal or greater value is received.
   
   
   
   Government photo identification – a card issued by the District of Columbia
   government that bears a photograph of the face of the voter and the voter’s
   current, District of Columbia residential address.
   
   
   
   Household &#8211; a public official or employee and any member of his or her
   immediate family with whom the public official or employee resides.
   
   
   
   Identification &#8211; in the case of an individual, the full name, including
   first name, middle name or initial, if available, last name of an individual,
   and full address of the principal place of residence; and in the case of
   partnership, committee, corporation, labor organization, and any other
   organization, full name and mailing address.
   
   
   
   Immediate family &#8211; the spouse or domestic partner of a public official
   or employee and any parent, grandparent, brother, sister, or child of the
   public official or employee, and the spouse or domestic partner of any such
   parent, grandparent, brother, sister, or child.
   
   
   
   Inaugural Committee – any person, or group of persons, organized for the
   purpose of soliciting, accepting, and spending funds and coordinating
   activities to celebrate the election of a new Mayor.
   
   
   
   Incidental expenses &#8211; any unreimbursed payment from a volunteer’s
   personal funds for usual and normal local travel and subsistence expenses
   incident to volunteer activity.
   
   
   
   Income &#8211; gross income as defined in Section 61 of the Internal Revenue
   Code (26 U.S.C. § 61).
   
   
   
   Independent expenditures &#8211; an expenditure for communications by a person
   expressly advocating the election or defeat of a clearly identified candidate,
   which is made without cooperation or consultation with any candidate or any
   authorized committee or agent of the candidate.
   
   
   
   In-kind contribution &#8211; a contribution of goods, services, or property by
   the contributor to a campaign finance committee, candidate,
   constituent-service program, or Statehood Fund.
   
   
   
   Interpretative Opinion – a legal opinion issued by the Director of Campaign
   Finance concerning a proposed transaction relative to District of Columbia
   campaign finance law or regulation.
   
   
   
   Legal Defense Committee – any person, or group of persons, organized for the
   purpose of soliciting, accepting, and spending funds to defray attorney and
   other related costs for a public official’s legal defense in civil,
   criminal, or administrative proceedings. Such funds shall not be used for
   fundraising, media or political consulting fees, mass mailing or advertising,
   payment or reimbursement for a fine, penalty, judgment, or settlement, or a
   payment to reimburse or to disgorge contributions from any other committee
   controlled by the public official.
   
   
   
   Legal tender &#8211; currency and coins of the United States; ready money.
   
   
   
   Legislative action &#8211; includes any activity conducted by an official in
   the legislative branch in the course of carrying out his or her duties as such
   an official, and relating to the introduction, passage, or defeat of any
   legislation in the Council.
   
   
   
   Limited Liability Company (LLC) – is an unincorporated association
   established pursuant to District of Columbia Code (2001 edition), Title 29,
   Chapter 8, with one or more members who have limited personal liability for
   the debts and actions of the LLC.
   
   
   
   Logic and accuracy testing (“L&#038;A testing”) – validation of the
   mathematical accuracy of vote recording and tabulation equipment for internal
   and external consistencies.
   
   
   
   Made with cooperation or consultation with any candidate &#8211; any
   arrangement, coordination, or direction by the candidate or his or her agent
   prior to the publication, distribution, display, or broadcast of the
   communication. An expenditure will be presumed to be so made when it is as
   follows:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Based on information about the candidate’s plans, projects, or needs
   provided to the expending person by the candidate, or by candidate’s agent,
   with a view toward having an expenditure made; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Made by or through any person who is, or has been, authorized to raise or
   expend funds; who is, or has been, an officer of an authorized committee; or
   who is, or has been receiving any form of compensation or reimbursement from
   the candidate, the candidate’s committee or agent.
   
   
   
   Mass collections &#8211; the receipt of contributions by a committee,
   candidate, or individual, at dinners, luncheons, rallies, and other
   fundraising events organized by a committee, candidate, or individual.
   
   
   
   Mass sales &#8211; to make available for purchase by a committee, candidate,
   or individual, at dinners, luncheons, rallies, and other fundraising events
   organized by such committee, candidate, or individual, items in bulk such as
   political campaign pins, buttons, badges, flags, emblems, hats, banners,
   literature, and similar materials.
   
   
   
   Non-postmarked – not bearing the postal cancellation imprint on letters
   flats and parcels that shows the date, name, state, and ZIP Code of the post
   office or sectional center facility that accepted the mail.
   
   
   
   Non-support year &#8211; any calendar year in which a political committee is
   not engaged in promoting or opposing a political party, the nomination or
   election of an individual to office, or any initiative, referendum, or recall
   measure.
   
   
   
   Occupation &#8211; the principal job title or position, and type of business,
   or whether self-employed for the purposes of the Campaign Finance Act.
   
   
   
   Office – the Office of Mayor, Attorney General, Chairman or member of the
   Council, President or member of the Board of Education, or an official of a
   political party in the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Official ballot – a sheet of paper, or electronic card, filmstrip, or other
   device that has been approved by the Board for use during an election on which
   votes are recorded and stored.  For direct-recording electronic (“DRE”)
   machines, the official ballot shall be the electronic card that records and
   stores the elector’s votes, except that the voter-verified paper audit trail
   (“VVPAT”) shall be the official ballot of record during all occurrences of
   manual tabulation, including audits and recounts.
   
   
   
   Official in the executive branch &#8211; includes:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Mayor;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any officer or employee in the Executive Service;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Persons employed under the authority of D.C. Official Code §§ 1-609.01
   through 1-609.03 (except § 1-609.03(a)(3)) paid at a rate of DS-13 or above
   in the General Schedule or equivalent compensation under the provisions of
   Subchapter XI of Chapter 6 of this title designated in § 1-609.08 (except
   paragraphs (9) and (10) of that section); or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Members of boards and commissions designated in § 1-523.01(e).
   
   
   
   Official in the legislative branch &#8211; any candidate for Chairman or
   member of the Council in a primary, special, or general election, the Chairman
   or Chairman-elect or any member or member-elect of the Council, officers, and
   employees of the Council appointed under the authority of §§ 1-609.01
   through 1-609.03 or designated in § 1-609.08.
   
   
   
   Official of a political party – national committeemen and committeewomen and
   their alternates; delegates to conventions of political parties nominating
   candidates for the Presidency and Vice Presidency of the United States and
   their alternates, where permitted by party rules; such members and officials
   of local committees of political parties as designated by duly authorized
   local committees of such parties for election, by public ballot, at large or
   by ward in the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Ordinary course of business &#8211; transacting business according to
   customary and reasonable business practices.
   
   
   
   Overvote – instance in which a voter casts a vote for a greater number of
   candidates or positions than the number for which he or she was lawfully
   entitled to vote and no vote shall be counted with respect to that office or
   question.
   
   
   
   Particular matter &#8211; a deliberation, decision, or action that is focused
   upon the interests of specific persons, or a discrete and identifiable class
   of persons.
   
   
   
   Partnership – an association of two (2) or more persons acting as co-owners
   of a business for profit.
   
   
   
   Party – a person or group of persons directly involved in, or having an
   interest at stake in the outcome of a transaction, which is the subject of a
   legal proceeding as a litigant.
   
   
   
   Party affiliation status – for registration and registration update
   purposes, the elector’s choice of “Democratic Party,” “Republican
   Party,” “D.C. Statehood Green Party,” “Libertarian Party”, “no
   party (independent),” or any other minor party.
   
   
   
   Person – an individual, partnership, committee, corporation, limited
   liability company, labor organization, or any other organization.
   
   
   
   Political Committee – any proposer, individual, committee (including a
   principal campaign committee), club, organization, association, or other group
   of individuals organized for the purpose of, or engaged in promoting or
   opposing, the nomination or election of an individual to office, a political
   party, or any initiative, referendum, or recall measure.
   
   
   
   Political Party – an association, committee, or other organized group of
   individuals who share a similar ideology concerning government policy, and
   which nominates a candidate for election to office in the District of
   Columbia.
   
   
   
   Political Action Committee (PAC) – an organized group of individuals not
   authorized by a candidate to act on his or her behalf, but may operate
   independently of the candidate for purposes of supporting or opposing a
   clearly identified candidate for office, political party, or may be solely
   issues-oriented.
   
   
   
   Poll watcher – a qualified elector who has received proper credentials from
   the Board to monitor voting or ballot counting activity on behalf of a
   qualified candidate, or proponent or opponent of a proposed initiative,
   referendum, recall measure, or Charter amendment.
   
   
   
   Polling place official &#8211; an individual who is employed by the District
   of Columbia Board of Elections on those dates when elections and early voting
   are conducted in the District of Columbia or any subsequent dates upon which
   the counting or recounting of ballots occurs and includes, but is not limited
   to, precinct captains, precinct workers, counters, or area representatives.
   
   
   
   Postmarked – bearing the postal cancellation imprint on letters flats and
   parcels that shows the date, name, state, and ZIP Code of the post office or
   sectional center facility that accepted the mail.
   
   
   
   Principal Campaign Committee (PCC) – an organized group of individuals,
   whose name includes the name of a clearly identified candidate, which is
   authorized by a candidate to cause his or her nomination or election to office
   in the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Principal place of business &#8211; full name under which the business is
   conducted and the addresses, city, and state in which the person is employed
   or conducts business.
   
   
   
   Prohibited source &#8211; any person that:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Has or is seeking to obtain contractual or other business or financial
   relations with the District of Columbia government;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conducts operations or activities that are subject to regulation by the
   District of Columbia government; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Has an interest that may be favorably affected by the performance or
   non-performance of the employee&#8217;s official responsibilities.
   
   
   
   Public official &#8211; includes:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A candidate for nomination for election, or election, to public office;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Mayor, Chairman, and each member of the Council of the District of
   Columbia holding office under Chapter 2 of this title;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Attorney General;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A Representative or Senator elected pursuant to D.C. Official Code § 1-123;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A member of the State Board of Education;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A person serving as a subordinate agency head in a position designated as
   within the Executive Service;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A member of a board or commission listed in D.C. Official Code § 1-523.01(e);
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A District of Columbia Excepted Service employee paid at a rate of Excepted
   Service 9 or above, or its equivalent, who makes decisions or participates
   substantially in areas of contracting, procurement, administration of grants
   or subsidies, developing policies, land use planning, inspecting, licensing,
   regulating, or auditing, or acts in areas of responsibility that may create a
   conflict of interest or appearance of a conflict of interest; and any
   additional employees designated by rule by the Ethics Board who make decisions
   or participate substantially in areas of contracting, procurement,
   administration of grants or subsidies, developing policies, land use planning,
   inspecting, licensing, regulating, or auditing, or act in areas of
   responsibility that may create a conflict of interest or appearance of a
   conflict of interest.
   
   
   
   Qualified elector – a registered voter who resides at the address listed on
   the Board’s records.
   
   
   
   Qualified registered elector – a registered voter who resides at the address
   listed on the Board’s records.
   
   
   
   Registered qualified elector &#8211; a registered voter who resides at the
   address listed on the Board’s records.
   
   
   
   Respondent – a party to a contested matter in an administrative proceeding.
   
   
   
   Sample/specimen ballot – a representation of an original official ballot
   used for demonstration purposes only.
   
   
   
   Statement of Candidacy &#8211; a written statement, filed with the Director,
   declaring one’s intention of becoming a candidate for election, made
   &#8220;under penalty of perjury&#8221; and signed by the candidate.
   
   
   
   Statement of Organization – a prescribed form that identifies the name of
   any group of individuals, proposer, individual, club, organization, or
   association organized for the purpose of promoting or opposing the nomination
   or election of an individual to office, or promoting or opposing a political
   party or any initiative, referendum or recall measure, made &#8220;under
   penalty of perjury&#8221; and signed by the Treasurer or a designated agent.
   
   
   
   Submission – the voter’s act of returning a voted ballot to the Board.
   
   
   
   Surplus funds &#8211; residual or unexpended monies remaining in a candidate,
   constituent-service program, Statehood Fund, or political committee account in
   excess of the amount necessary to defray expenses.
   
   
   
   Testimonial committee &#8211; any committee, association, or organization
   organized and operated exclusively for the purpose of publicly acknowledging
   an official’s services, character, attainments, conduct, qualifications, or
   contributions while holding office. A testimonial committee is not a political
   committee.
   
   
   
   Timely completed – the information given and signature made on or prior to
   the date required pursuant to the D.C. Official Code and the D.C. Municipal
   Regulations, Title 3.
   
   
   
   To cause to be undertaken &#8211; an actual writing, drawn up by an executive
   agency, intended to initiate a rulemaking proceeding. The phrase is not
   intended to include discussion among members of the agency or the public prior
   to their submission of the writing.
   
   
   
   Transition Committee – any person or group of persons organized for the
   purpose of soliciting, accepting or expending funds for office and personnel
   transition on behalf of the Mayor or the Chairman of the Council.
   
   
   
   Transmission – the Board’s act of sending a ballot to the voter.
   
   
   
   To propose legislation &#8211; an actual written proposal signed by the head
   of a proposing agency and submitted to the Mayor, Council, President of the
   United States, or the United States Congress.  It does not refer to discussion
   among members of the proposing agency before submission of the written
   request, nor does it refer to oral communications between the proposing agency
   and the Mayor, President, or members of the Council or the U. S. Congress.
   
   
   
   Treasurer – an official of a political campaign or other committee, who is
   required to file a Statement of Acceptance of Treasurer with the Director of
   Campaign Finance, and authorized to receive contributions, to make
   expenditures and to file financial reports on behalf of a candidate or other
   committee.
   
   
   
   Unauthorized committee – any organized political committee that has not been
   designated by a candidate for election.
   
   
   
   Undervote – an instance in which a voter casts a vote for a lesser number of
   candidates or positions than the number for which he was lawfully entitled to
   vote.
   
   
   
   Voter registration application – a Board-approved form that meets federal
   requirements pursuant to the National Voter Registration Act (“NVRA”) (42
   U.S.C. § 1973gg, et seq.) and the Help America Vote Act (“HAVA”) (42
   U.S.C. § 15301 – 15545) that a qualified elector uses to register to vote
   or to update voter registration information.
   
   
   
   Voting system – any equipment or software used to tabulate ballots.
   
   
   
   Write-in nominee &#8211; an individual whose name is written on or imprinted
   upon the ballot by a voter, in a primary, general, or special election and
   whose eligibility as a candidate in the election has not been determined by
   the Executive Director.
   
   
   
   Write-in candidate (“qualified write-in candidate”) – as distinguished
   from a “write-in nominee,” an individual who is seeking nomination or
   election by the electorate and whose eligibility as a candidate in the
   election has been determined by the Executive Director.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 3161, 3214 (May 22, 1998); as
   amended at Final Rulemaking 53 DCR 3243-3244 (April 21, 2006); as amended by
   Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 7725 (August 20,
   2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 11169
   (November 26, 2010); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 1402
   (February 8, 2013); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 11864
   (August 16, 2013).
