                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTINUING EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS (§ 17-8106)

8106.1. This section shall apply to all applicants for the renewal,
   reactivation, or reinstatement of a polysomnographic technologist license
   under this chapter.

   8106.2. A licensed polysomnographic technologist is not required to obtain
   continuing education credits for the first renewal after initial licensure.
   
   
   
   8106.3 	A licensed polysomnographic technologist shall earn a minimum of
   twenty (20) continuing education credits during the two (2) year period
   immediately preceding the date of any subsequent license renewal.

   8106.4. An applicant for the renewal, reactivation, or reinstatement of a
   polysomnographic technologist license shall prove completion of the required
   continuing education credits by submitting with the application the following
   information with respect to each continuing education program:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The name and address of the sponsor of the program;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The name and address of the program;
   
   
   
   (c) 	A description of the subject matter covered and the name(s) of the
   instructor(s);
   
   
   
   (d)  	The dates on which the applicant attended the program;
   
   
   
   (e) 	The number of hours of credit claimed; and
   
   
   
   (f) 	Verification by the sponsor, by signature or stamp, of the applicant’s
   
   	completion of the program.

   8106.5. An applicant for renewal of a polysomnographic technologist license
   who fails to submit proof of having completed the continuing education
   requirements by the date the license expires may renew his or her license
   during the thirty (30) day period after expiration by submitting this proof
   pursuant to § 8106.4 and by paying the required fees.

   8106.6. If an application is approved pursuant to § 8106.5, the applicant
   shall be deemed to have possessed a valid license commencing on the date the
   license or registration is renewed.

   8106.7. If an applicant for renewal of a license fails to submit proof of
   having completed the continuing education requirements and pay the required
   fees within thirty (30) days after the expiration of applicant’s license,
   the license shall be considered to have lapsed on the date of its expiration.

   8106.8. The Board may, in its discretion, grant an extension of the thirty
   (30) day renewal period established by § 8106.5 if the applicant’s failure
   to submit proof of having completed the continuing education requirements was
   for good cause.  For the purposes of this subsection, good cause includes:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Serious and protracted illness of the applicant; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The death or serious and protracted illness of a member of the applicant’s
   immediate family.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3758, 3764 (April 29,
   2011).
