                                  DC REGULATIONS

QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSURE AS A POLYSOMNOGRAPHIC TECHNOLOGIST (ยง 17-8102)

8102.1  	An applicant for a licensure as a polysomnographic technologist shall
   submit to the Board:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A completed application on a form provided by the Board;
   
   
   
   (b)	 A completed criminal background check in accordance with 17 DCMR ยง 8501;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Proof that the applicant holds current certification in cardiopulmonary
   
        	resuscitation (CPR) from either the American Heart Association or the
   
        	American Red Cross;
   
   
   
   (d)	 Certification signed by a supervising polysomnographic technologist
   
        	or a qualified medical doctor, on a form provided by the Board,
   verifying that the applicant has completed at least fifty (50) sleep studies
   in one (1) or more facilities that are provisionally or fully accredited by
   the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM);
   
   
   
   (e) 	Proof that the applicant has successfully passed the Registered
   
        	Polysomnographic Technologist (RPSGT) Exam or other nationally
   recognized examination, as approved by the Board; and
   
   
   
   (f) 	Attestation on a form provided by the Board that the applicant will be
   
        	supervised by a licensed  physician while acting as a polysomnographic
   
        	technologist.

   8102.2. Within thirty (30) business days after the application for licensure
   has been
   
   received by the Board, the Board shall, at the request of the applicant, issue
   a supervised practice letter to the applicant to document that his or her
   application is pending and that he or she is authorized to practice as a
   polysomnographic
   
    technologist under this chapter.  The practice letter shall not be renewable
   and shall expire at the earlier of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Ninety (90) days after the date of its issuance; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Upon receipt of written notice from the Board that the application for
   
                licensure has been denied.

   8102.3. If the applicant is employed by more than one (1) employer, he or she
   must obtain one (1) practice letter for each place of employment.

   8102.4. Upon receipt of a supervised practice letter, the applicant shall
   inform his or her employer(s) of the date of expiration of the letter and
   shall immediately cease the practice of polysomnography on that date or upon
   receipt of written notice from the Board that the application for licensure
   has been denied, whichever date is earlier.  The applicant thereafter may
   practice in a non-professional healthcare occupation, until receipt of a
   license or issuance of a license number.

   8102.5. If the applicant obtains a new supervisor, he or she must inform the
   Board and submit a new attestation form within fifteen (15) days after the
   change in supervisor.

   8102.6. An applicant must notify the Board and file a new attestation form
   before beginning employment with a new employer.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3758, 3759 (April 29,
   2011).
