                                  DC REGULATIONS

QUALIFICATIONS FOR REGISTRATION AS A POLYSOMNOGRAPHIC TECHNICIAN (ยง 17-8103)

8103.1. An applicant for registration as a polysomnographic technician shall
   submit to the Board:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A completed application on a form provided by the Board;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A completed criminal background check in accordance with 17 DCMR ยง 8501;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Proof that the applicant holds current certification in cardiopulmonary
   Resuscitation (CPR) provided by either the American Heart Association or the
   American Red Cross;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Proof that the applicant has successfully completed a polysomnographic
   training program accredited by the Commission on the  Accreditation of Allied
   Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) or an Accredited Sleep Technologist
   Education Program (A-Step) accredited by the American Academy of Sleep
   Medicine;
   
   
   
   (e)	Proof that the applicant passed the Certified Polysomnographic Technician
   (CPSGT) Exam; and
   
   
   
   (f) 	Attestation on a form provided by the Board that the applicant will be
   
        	supervised by a licensed polysomnographic technologist or a licensed
   
        	physician while acting as a polysomnographic technician.

   8103.2. Within five (5) business days after the application for registration
   has been
   
   received by the Board, the Board shall, at the request of the applicant, issue
   a supervised practice letter to the applicant to document that his or her
   application is pending and that he or she is authorized to practice as a
   polysomnographic technician under this chapter.  The practice letter shall not
   be renewable and shall expire on the earlier of the following:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Ninety (90) days after the date of issuance; or
   
   
   
   (b) 	Upon receipt of written notice from the Board that the application for
   registration has been denied.

   8103.3. Upon receipt of a supervised practice letter, the applicant shall
   inform his or her employer of the date of expiration of the letter and shall
   immediately cease to practice as a polysomnographic technician on that date or
   upon receipt of written notice from the Board that the application for
   licensure has been denied, whichever date is earlier. The applicant thereafter
   may practice in a non-professional healthcare occupation, until receipt of a
   registration or issuance of a registration number.

   8103.4. If the applicant obtains a new supervisor, he or she must inform the
   Board and submit a new attestation form within fifteen (15) days after the
   change in supervisor.

   8103.5. If the applicant changes jobs, he or she must notify the Board and
   have a new attestation form on file before beginning the new job.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3758, 3760 (April 29,
   2011).
