                                  DC REGULATIONS

QUALIFICATIONS FOR AS A POLYSOMNOGRAPHIC TRAINEE (ยง 17-8104)

8104.1. An applicant for registration as a polysomnographic trainee shall
   submit to the Board:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A completed application form provided by the Board;
   
   
   
   (b) 	A completed criminal background check in accordance with 17 DCMR ยง 8501;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Proof that the applicant holds current certification in cardiopulmonary
   resuscitation (CPR) provided by the American Heart Association or the American
   Red Cross;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Proof that the applicant has successfully completed the Accredited Sleep
   Technologist Education Program (A-STEP) Introductory Course or is currently
   enrolled in a polysomnography, respiratory , or electroencephalography (EEG)
   program accredited by the CAAHEP; and
   
   
   
   (e) 	Attestation on a form provided by the Board that the applicant will be
   directly supervised, while acting as a polysomnographic trainee, by a licensed
   polysomnographic technologist or a licensed physician.

   8104.2. Within five (5) business days after the application for registration
   has been
   
   received by the Board, the Board shall, at the request of the applicant, issue
   a supervised practice letter to the applicant to document that his or her
   application is pending and that he or she is authorized to practice under this
   chapter.  The supervised practice letter shall not be renewable and shall
   expire on the earlier of the following:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Ninety (90) days after the date of issuance; or
   
   
   
   (b) 	Upon receipt of written notice from the Board that the application for
   
         	licensure has been denied.

   8104.3. Upon receipt of a supervised practice letter, the applicant shall
   inform the employer of the date of expiration of the letter and shall
   immediately cease practice as a polysomnography trainee on that date or upon
   receipt of written notice from the Board that the application for registration
   has been denied, whichever date is the earlier.  The applicant thereafter may
   practice in a non-professional healthcare occupation, until receipt of a
   registration or issuance of a registration number.

   8104.4. If the applicant obtains a new supervisor, he or she must inform the
   Board and submit a new attestation form within fifteen (15) days of the change
   in supervisor.

   8104.5. If the applicant changes jobs, he or she must notify the Board and
   have a new attestation form on file before beginning the new job.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3758, 3762 (April 29,
   2011).
