                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICE DELIVERY AND QUALITY ASSURANCE REQUIREMENTS (§ 29-5403)

5403.1. Each fee-for-service primary care provider shall provide each enrollee
   with high quality health care at locations that ensure reasonable availability
   and accessibility to enrollees.

   5403.2. Each fee-for-service primary care provider shall provide either
   directly or by referral, each service in the Medicaid managed care benefits
   package, including patient management and referrals and approvals.

   5403.3. Each fee-for-service primary care provider shall ensure that urgent
   and emergency medical care are available to AFDC and AFDC-related Medicaid
   enrollees on a twenty-four (24) hour basis, seven (7) days a week, either
   through the fee-for-service provider or through other appropriate facilities.

   5403.4. Each AFDC and AFDC-related Medicaid recipient shall receive the same
   services in the same facilities as the fee-for-service primary care
   provider’s non-AFDC and AFDC-related Medicaid enrollees.

   5403.5. Each AFDC and AFDC-related Medicaid enrollee shall be fully integrated
   into the fee-for-service primary care provider’s practice and shall not be
   treated in a manner different from non-AFDC or AFDC-related patients.

   5403.6. Each fee-for-service primary care provider shall provide health
   education programs for its enrollees in languages understood by the population
   being served. The education programs shall include, at a minimum, the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Information regarding the importance and availability of preventive care;
   
   
   
   (b)	Information regarding the importance and availability of childhood
   immunizations;
   
   
   
   (c)	Information regarding the importance of and right to, and procedure for
   scheduling the Early Periodic Screening, Diagnosis and Treatment (EPSDT)
   screens for children covered by Medicaid;
   
   
   
   (d)	Information on birth control and on the importance and availability of
   prenatal and well baby care;
   
   
   
   (e)	Information regarding proper nutrition for pregnant women and children;
   and
   
   
   
   (f)	Information regarding preventive and treatment measures for drug abuse and
   alcoholism.

   5403.7. The fee-for-service primary care provider shall have a system of
   follow-up of patient care for enrollees with chronic and acute illnesses,
   including an appointment follow-up system for persons who do not appear for
   appointments.

   5403.8. Waiting times for appointments for AFDC and AFDC-related Medicaid
   enrollees shall not exceed the waiting times for non-AFDC or AFDC-related
   patients of the fee-for-service primary care provider.

   5403.9. Each fee-for-service primary care provider shall maintain a current,
   unified medical record on each enrollee.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1566, 1590 (March 31, 1995).
