                                  DC REGULATIONS

PAYMENT FOR SERVICES (§ 29-5404)

5404.1. The Department shall not make any payment for Medicaid services to a
   fee-for-service primary care provider unless the provider has executed a
   Medicaid managed care provider agreement.

   5404.2. Each fee-for-service primary care provider’s Medicaid managed care
   provider agreement with the Department shall be for a twelve (12) month
   period.

   5404.3. Each fee-for-service primary care provider shall be paid by the
   Department a fee-for-service for the covered services it provides to AFDC and
   AFDC-related Medicaid enrollees. The fees paid shall be the standard rate for
   the same service by the District’s Medicaid program.

   5404.4. No fee-for-service primary care provider shall impose co-payment
   requirements or other fees that are not a part of the D.C. Medicaid Managed
   Care program on AFDC and AFDC-Related Medicaid enrollees.

   5404.5. If an enrollee loses Medicaid eligibility the Department shall not
   reimburse the fee-for-service primary care provider for any service rendered
   to that enrollee after the effective date of the termination of her/his
   eligibility.

   5404.6. If an enrollee voluntarily elects to change providers or is
   involuntarily assigned to another provider in accordance with the requirements
   of the program, the Department shall not reimburse the fee-for-service primary
   care provider from whose patient load the enrollee was reassigned for any
   service rendered to that enrollee after the effective date of the
   reassignment.

   5404.7. If an enrollee receives a service covered by the D.C. Medicaid Managed
   Care program from a provider other than her/his primary care provider of
   record, the Department shall not reimburse the provider rendering the service
   unless the service was authorized by the primary care provider in accordance
   with the requirements of the program.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1566, 1591 (March 31, 1995).
