                                  DC REGULATIONS

STORAGE OF WASTE TIRES (§ 17-802)

802.1. No tire dealer licensee shall store more than five hundred (500) waste
   tires on its property.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Waste tires shall be stacked in solid piles and in an orderly manner on a
   level surface.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Waste tires shall be stored in a covered trailer, roll-off box, cage, or
   similar storage device to prevent rainwater or melting snow from collecting in
   the waste tires.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Waste tires shall not:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be located on public space, including sidewalks, streets, or alleys;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be located along the property’s fences, gates or walls that are
   immediately adjacent to public space, including sidewalks, streets, or alleys;
   
   
   
   (c)	Be located within twenty-five feet (25 ft.) of any occupiable structure,
   such as a residential or commercial building, on an adjacent property;
   
   
   
   (d)	Be stored so that they exceed ten feet (10 ft.) in height;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Be stored in such a manner that they exceed either twenty-five feet (25
   ft.) in width or one hundred feet (100 ft.) in length;
   
   
   
   (f)	Be stored in such a manner that they do not allow a width of at least
   fifty feet (50 ft.) between stacks of waste tires; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Be stored near any flammable source, combustible material, or any other
   volatile material.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any area on the licensee’s property that contains waste tires shall be
   clearly designated as a no smoking area.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A licensee shall properly maintain the property and shall not allow excessive
   vegetative growth, including plants with obnoxious or noxious odor, weeds,
   grasses causing hay fever, or any weed growth that creates a breeding place
   for mosquitoes.  Vegetative growth on the property shall not exceed a height
   of ten inches (10 in.).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A licensee shall ensure the property’s fences and gates are properly
   maintained to prevent any unauthorized access to the property.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 15224 (November 1, 2013).
