                                  DC REGULATIONS

USE OF CCTV TO COMBAT CRIME (ยง 24-2508)

2508.1. The Chief of Police is authorized to use the CCTV system for the
   purpose of preventing, detecting, deterring, and investigating crime in
   neighborhoods in the District of Columbia.

   2508.2. The Chief of Police shall, at a minimum, consider the following
   factors prior to using the CCTV system to combat crime:
   
   
   
   (a)	The number and type of calls for service in the proposed CCTV camera
   location;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any crimes that were committed in the proposed CCTV camera location; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A request or recommendation made by the Advisory Neighborhood Commission,
   or a civic or citizen association; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any other objectively verifiable information from which the Chief of
   Police may ascertain whether the health, safety, or property of residents who
   live in the proposed CCTV location are endangered by crime or other illegal
   activity.

   2508.3. The Chief of Police shall have the final authority to decide where to
   place a CCTV camera or CCTV cameras for crime-fighting purposes, although the
   Chief of Police shall be required to give consideration to locating cameras
   within public housing developments in Hot Spot Areas.

   2508.4. When CCTV is used to combat crime, recordings may be passively
   monitored, meaning that the video feeds may not be monitored in real time, and
   recordings may be viewed by MPD personnel where there is reason to believe
   that the viewing may help solve a crime.

   2508.5. The Chief of Police shall consult with the relevant Councilmember and
   the relevant ANC Commissioner prior to deploying CCTV cameras to combat crime.
   An ANC, or a civic or citizen association, upon determination of need, may
   submit a request to the Chief of Police that a CCTV camera be placed in its
   neighborhood.

   2508.6. On or before February 15, 2008, the Chief of Police shall report to
   the Mayor and to the Council on the cameras&#8217; effectiveness at
   preventing, detecting, and solving crime since their installation. The report
   shall also evaluate whether the presence of cameras served to displace
   criminal activity. The effectiveness of the cameras shall be evaluated using,
   but not limited to, the following factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	The rate of crime in the specific area in which a surveillance camera is
   located from the date of the camera&#8217;s installation until January 1,2008,
   compared with the rate of crime in the same PSA within the previous 2 years;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number of calls for service, including calls for service for public
   disorder, drug activity, and prostitution, in the specific area in which a
   surveillance camera is located from the date of the camera&#8217;s
   installation until January 1,2008, compared with the number of calls for
   service in the same PSA within the previous 2 years;
   
   
   
   (c)	The same information in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection in the
   PSAs that surround the PSA in which the specific area is located, for the
   purpose of measuring any potential displacement of crime caused by the
   deployment of the Closed Circuit Television Cameras in the specific areas;
   
   
   
   (d)	General crime trends in the specific area within a PSA in which a
   surveillance camera is located, the PSAs surrounding the specific areas, the
   specific areas&#8217; police districts, and the District of Columbia, within
   the previous 4 years;
   
   
   
   (e)	The number of crimes in the specific areas detected and reported to the
   Metropolitan Police Department because of the presence of the video
   surveillance cameras; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The number of crime investigations aided by the Closed Circuit Television
   Cameras, and a description in each case of how the camera was helpful to the
   investigation, during the period July 19,2006 to January 1, 2008.

   2508.7. The report due February 15, 2008 shall also state the Metropolitan
   Police Department&#8217;s long-term plan for the use of CCTV cameras to combat
   crime, including:
   
   
   
   (a)	Changes to the program, if any;
   
   
   
   (b)	Ultimate number of cameras to be installed;
   
   
   
   (c)	How CCTV cameras will be integrated with other crime-fighting measures;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	Estimated fiscal impact of the long-range CCTV plan.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Amended by D.C. ACT 16-642 published at 54 DCR 938-940 (February 2,
   2007).
