                                  DC REGULATIONS

PUBLIC NOTIFICATION (ยง 24-2502)

2502.1. The Chief of Police shall provide public notification prior to the
   deployment of any permanent cameras, except:
   
   
   
   (a)	Under exigent circumstances; or
   
   
   
   (b)	When cameras are deployed pursuant to a court order.

   2502.2. Public notice shall include the general capabilities of CCTV systems,
   their use in departmental operations, and the duration of the deployment.
   Public notice will also identify the viewing area, but not necessarily the
   precise location of the camera. The precise location of a camera may be
   disclosed if the Chief of Police determines that disclosure will not undermine
   the security of the camera and the efficacy of the deployment.

   2502.3. The public shall have thirty (30) days to submit comments regarding a
   proposed deployment to the Chief of Police. The public may submit comments to
   the Chief of Police at any time regarding a particular camera deployment or
   the CCTV system in general.

   2502.4. The Chief of Police shall consider the comments submitted by the
   public in determining whether to go forward with deployment of the camera. The
   Chief of Police will provide public notice of his decision and provide an
   explanation.

   2502.5. In exigent circumstances, the Chief of Police is authorized to deploy
   cameras without first consulting or soliciting comments from the public. After
   the conclusion of the exigent circumstance, the camera shall be turned off
   immediately. As soon as feasible after the conclusion of the exigent
   circumstance, the Chief of Police shall have the camera removed. The Chief of
   Police will provide post-deployment public notification of any camera deployed
   under this provision.

   2502.6. When cameras are deployed pursuant to a court order, neither pre nor
   post-deployment notification is required.

   2502.7. MPD will post and maintain signage indicating the presence of CCTV
   systems in the District of Columbia.

   2502.8. On a semi-annual basis, MPD will provide updates on the CCTV system at
   community meetings to be announced to the public.

   2502.9. MPD will provide information about the CCTV system and its usage in
   its Annual Report. The information shall include the viewing area of cameras,
   periods of activation and/or recording and the purposes of activation and
   recording, disposition of any recordings, and an evaluation of whether the
   camera achieved the purposes stated in section 2500. The MPD shall not include
   any information pertaining to cameras deployed pursuant to a court order or
   deployed as part of an on-going criminal investigation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking Published at 49 DCR 11443 (December 20, 2002); as
   amended by D.C. ACT 16-642 published at 54 DCR 938 (February 2, 2007).
