                                  DC REGULATIONS

BUSINESS STREETS (§ 24-113)

113.1. The streets within the following boundary areas shall be denominated
   &#8220;business streets&#8221; for the purposes of this chapter:
   
   
   
   (a)	K Street N.W., between Fifth and Sixth Streets;
   
   
   
   (b)	The west side of Seventh Street, N.W., between the northern limit of the
   market building of the Northern Market Co., and the south building line of P
   Street;
   
   
   
   (c)	The west side of Eleventh Street, S.W., between Maine Avenue and F Street;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	The south side of F Street, S.W., from Eleventh Street westward, a
   distance not exceeding one hundred feet (100 ft.).

   113.2. The business streets and the sidewalks adjacent to business streets may
   be used by occupants of abutting property for business purposes under the
   conditions set forth in this section.

   113.3. Permission to occupy more space on business streets than is allowed in
   § 112 shall not be granted by the Director of Consumer and Regulatory
   Affairs, except under special order extending the limits of permissible
   occupation along the front of an entire block.

   113.4. No permit shall be granted to occupy any portion of the sidewalk or
   parking to any person who is not the owner or occupant of the property
   abutting that sidewalk or parking.

   113.5. Permits to occupy parking, sidewalks, or other public space shall not
   be transferable, and the space shall not be sublet.

   113.6. Whenever any occupant of an adjacent building vacates the building, or
   sells or otherwise transfers his or her business in whole or in part, any
   permit previously issued to the occupant shall become void.

   113.7. The subdivision of the space shall be under the direction of the
   Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.

   113.8. If meat, fish, poultry, or game of any kind is sold, the person or
   persons holding the permit(s) shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Have those commodities under roof, and screened or covered as provided by
   the health and food regulations of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a clean water supply for cleaning the hands and utensils of food
   dealers; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Ensure that these foods are kept from insanitary and contaminating
   products.

   113.9. Anyone who uses public space to display merchandise and wares shall
   keep clean metal receptacles with covers for the deposit of all kinds of
   garbage, trash, and waste.

   113.10. No papers, trash, or rubbish shall be thrown on any public space or in
   the streets adjacent to any public space; and no person shall allow any
   barrels, boxes, crates, or other property owned by him or her to be placed on
   any space not assigned to the person for occupancy.

   113.11. The hours during which commodities may be sold on public space under
   this section are as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	During the months of April, May, June, July, August, and September, from
   4:30 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.;
   
   
   
   (b)	During the months of October, November, December, January, February, and
   March, from 5:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.;
   
   
   
   (c)	During all months, on Saturdays until 11:30 p.m.; and
   
   
   
   (d)	At no time on Sundays.

   113.12. The schedule of distribution of the space between the building line
   and the curb line on each side of K Street, shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	A total of twenty-one feet (21 ft.) may be used for spaces;
   
   
   
   (b)	The twenty-one feet (21 ft.) shall be divided into not more than three (3)
   spaces, one (1) of which shall not exceed five feet (5 ft.) wide, and two (2)
   of which shall not exceed eight feet (8 ft.) wide;
   
   
   
   (c)	The five foot (5 ft.) wide space shall be contiguous to the curb; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Each space shall be separated from each other space by an aisle for
   pedestrian traffic at least ten feet (10 ft.) wide, with an aisle between the
   building line and the nearest eight foot (8 ft.) space the width of the
   remaining portion of the sidewalk space.

   113.13. The spaces are authorized to be used for the temporary display,
   handling, and sale of goods, and for the placing of counters. The counters
   shall be no more than four feet (4 ft.) in height; and shall not be placed or
   maintained in the space during the hours when spaces may not be used under
   this section, nor when spaces are otherwise not in use for the display of
   goods, unless any authorized canopy is adequately lighted for protection of
   pedestrians; Provided, that foods that are eaten in an uncooked condition,
   such as peaches, apples, grapes, and other fruits or vegetables, shall be
   placed on stands or tables that are not less than eighteen inches (18 in.) in
   height, or placed on the counters authorized by this section.

   113.14. All aisles shall be kept open and unobstructed at all times.

   113.15. The name of the owner of the merchandise displayed for sale on any of
   space or stand shall be conspicuously posted on the top of each stand.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 4, §§7 &#038; 8 of the Police Regulations (May 1981).
