                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS STREET DISPLAY PERMITS (ยง 24-114)

114.1. Permits for the use of public space on business streets shall be issued
   annually to occupants of adjacent buildings who are engaged in the sale of
   merchandise within the buildings, upon application to the Department of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs on the form(s) prescribed by the Director, in
   accordance with this section.

   114.2. Before occupying any portion of a street in the District of Columbia
   that has been or is denominated a business street in accordance with law, or
   before occupying any sidewalk or parking space contiguous to the street, each
   owner or occupant of any store, building, or other place of business on the
   street shall submit a least two (2) drawings showing, respectively, the
   location and dimensions of the space he or she desires to occupy, and the type
   of stands or structures, if any, the owner or occupant proposes to erect or
   use on the space.

   114.3. No permit to occupy any public space shall be issued until the drawings
   required by ยง 114.2 are approved by the Director of Consumer and Regulatory
   Affairs, and until one (1) of each of the drawings has been placed on file in
   the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.

   114.4. Permits to construct shed roofs or awnings on the public space may be
   issued by the Mayor to the owner or owners of adjacent buildings, in
   accordance with plans to be submitted to and approved by the Director of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.

   114.5. Applications for additional space privileges shall state the space
   desired and the nature of the business to be conducted on the space.

   114.6. All persons occupying a space on a business street or a portion of a
   business street, for displaying or selling merchandise, or for other business
   purposes, shall pay to the District of Columbia a monthly rental fee of one
   hundred thirty-six dollars ($136).

   114.7. The full name of the owner of merchandise displayed or sold in a
   structure or stand on any business street, sidewalk, parking space, or other
   public space, shall be conspicuously displayed on each structure or stand.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 4, ยง8, and Article 5, ยง2(e) of the Police Regulations (May
   1981).
