                                  DC REGULATIONS

PUBLIC PARKING[COLON] WALLS, WICKETS, AND FENCES (ยง 24-103)

103.1. After obtaining a permit from the District, the owners or occupants of
   land abutting a public parking may enclose the parking with any of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Walls of an approved type not exceeding three feet by six inches (3 ft. x
   6 in.) in height;
   
   
   
   (b)	Wooden fences of colonial design of an approved type not exceeding three
   feet by six inches (3 ft. x 6 in.) in height, with square, rectangular, or
   round posts and rails; with or without square, rectangular or round pickets
   extending through the rails; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Open fences of an approved type not less than three feet (3 ft.) or more
   than three feet by six inches (3 ft. x 6 in.) in height, constructed of iron,
   ornamental wire, or woven wire, and having top and bottom string pieces.

   103.2. No permit shall be issued for, and it shall be unlawful to maintain, a
   sharp-pointed or spear-headed type of fence that has uppermost points or
   prongs that are less than one-half inch (1/2 in.) in diameter.

   103.3. Walls and fences of a height greater than three feet six inches (3 ft.
   x 6 in.) shall be permitted only when specifically approved by the Mayor.

   103.4. A fee of nineteen dollars ($19) shall be charged for enclosing the
   parking in front of each house or where no parking fence or wall has
   previously existed.

   103.5. No fee shall be charged for an application to repair an existing fence
   or wall with the same character of material; Provided, that a permit for the
   erection of the original fence or wall must be on record.

   103.6. Where permission is requested to move a parking fence of an approved
   pattern out to a newly established sidewalk line, no fee will be charged.

   103.7. In all cases not covered by these exceptions, however, a fee of
   nineteen dollars ($19) shall be charged.

   103.8. Blocks or pedestals for fence posts must not project above the surface
   of the sidewalk, and no portion of a fence or a fence post block or pedestal
   shall extend beyond the parking line.

   103.9. All gates in parking fences must swing inwardly; and no gate shall
   swing outwardly over any sidewalk, avenue, street, or road.

   103.10. It shall be unlawful to place or maintain any wickets, guard wires, or
   other similar devices upon or adjacent to the sidewalk, tree space, or parking
   in the District of Columbia, except in accordance with the provisions of this
   section.

   103.11. Upon the payment of a fee of nineteen dollars ($19) for each premises,
   the Mayor may issue a permit to erect wickets of iron not less than
   three-eights of an inch (3/8 in.) in diameter. Each wicket shall be driven
   firmly into the ground, overlapping at least three inches (3 in.); shall be
   securely lashed with wire at top intersections and at the bottom of each
   wicket; shall be painted green; and shall be maintained in exact alignment
   with their tops on a level.

   103.12. Where the parking around which the wickets are to be placed is at the
   level of the sidewalk, the wickets shall have a minimum height of twenty-four
   inches (24 in.); and where the parking is terraced, the wickets shall have a
   minimum height of twelve inches (12 in.).

   103.13. Permission to erect wickets may be revoked by the Mayor upon failure
   to maintain the wickets in accordance with this section, or for any other
   reason that the Mayor may determine.

   103.14. No permit shall be issued for any wickets that are within one foot (1
   ft.) of the back edge of a public sidewalk; or that are in, upon,&#8217; or
   around tree spaces. The Mayor shall have the right to deny the use of wickets
   at any place that he or she deems that they should not be constructed or
   maintained.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 4, ยง1 of the Police Regulations (May 1981); as amended by 27
   DCR 3326, 3330 (August 1. 1980).
