                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRIVATE LAMPPOSTS AND OTHER FIXTURES (§ 24-106)

106.1. No private lamppost or lap shall be erected or placed in public space
   or in any public street, avenue, alley, or road of the District of Columbia
   unless authorized by a special permit obtained prior to the erection of the
   lamppost or lamp.

   106.2. Each permit shall be issued on the condition that the Mayor has the
   right to require the lamppost or lamp to be removed whenever the Mayor deems
   removal is necessary or advisable. Each application for a permit to erect a
   lamppost or a lamp must be accompanied by a written agreement signed by the
   owner or occupant, or both, of the premises in front of which the lamppost or
   lamp would be erected, agreeing to remove the lamppost or lamp when the Mayor
   requests removal.

   106.3. No private lamppost erected in public space that extends more than
   three feet by six inches (3 ft. x 6 in.) from the building line shall have a
   greater diameter than eighteen inches (18 in.). Lampposts that are permitted
   shall be of an approved, single-light type.

   106.4. The wattage of a lamp that extends more than three feet by six inches
   (3 ft. x .6 in.) from the building line shall not exceed the wattage as
   established for the public-street lamps for the vicinity; and the mounting
   heights shall be not less than that used for the public-street lamps of
   similar wattage.

   106.5. Spot or floodlight standards shall not be erected beyond three feet by
   six inches (3 ft. by 6 in.) from the building line; and, in no case, shall
   standards be erected beyond the inner edge of the sidewalk, or beyond the
   building line in front of or adjacent to premises used or zoned as
   residential.

   106.6. Private lamps of one hundred (100) watts or less, mounted not less than
   eight feet (8 ft.) above grade, may be permitted on or over public space.

   106.7. Private lamps over one hundred (100) watts, mounted not less than
   fourteen feet (14 ft.) above grade, may be permitted on or over public space
   in other than residential zones.

   106.8. No private lamp shall project over public space beyond a point eighteen
   inches (18 in.) back of the face of the nearest curb line. However, permits
   may be issued for lights of the public utility companies that, in the public
   interest, must be located in or over the public highway.

   106.9. Lamps or clusters of lamps installed under the provisions of this
   .section shall be installed so that the light rays shall not be directed on,
   against, or across public sidewalks, streets, alleys, or roadways, or across
   private property zoned as residential.

   106.10. A permit for the erection of spot and floodlights beyond the building
   line in residence and special purpose districts may be issued when, in the
   opinion of the Mayor, the spot and floodlights are desirable to illuminate
   public monumental buildings, monuments, and other similar structures;
   Provided, that the illumination is in the public interest, the direct rays are
   confined to the premises served, and a nuisance is not created.

   106.11. Colored lights or globes on private lamps shall not be used when
   placed more than three feet by six inches (3 ft. x 6 in.) beyond the building
   line.

   106.12. Every private lamp erected in the public space shall be enclosed in
   some form of ground, opalescent, or alabaster glass of sufficient density to
   remove the glare from the light source. This shall not be construed to apply
   to lamps less than twenty-five (25) watts each, used as borders, for outline
   lighting, and for illuminating signs, when placed not less than fourteen feet
   (14 ft.) above the sidewalk.

   106.13. No private lamppost or lamp, or any part of a lamppost or lamp,
   projecting or extending more than three feet by six inches (3 ft. x 6 in.)
   beyond the building line, or on or over any sidewalk or roadway, shall be used
   as a sign or advertisement.

   106.14. No portion of a sign, fixture, marquee, or other structure or
   projection of a building, shall extend over public space beyond a point
   eighteen inches (18 in.) back of the nearest curb line.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 20, §§6 through 10 of the Police Regulations (May 1981).
