                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 14-5999)

5999.1. For purposes of chapters 49 through 59 of title 14 of the District of
   Columbia Municipal Regulations, comprising the administration of the Housing
   Choice Voucher Program, the following definitions shall apply:
   
   
   
   Adjusted monthly income &#8211; one-twelfth (1/12) of Annual Income after
   allowances.
   
   
   
   Annual Income – Annual Income shall have the definition as set forth by 24
   C.F.R. § 5.609, as may be amended from time to time.
   
   
   
   	Application &#8211; a prescribed form, and any additional supporting
   documents, required to be completed by each person seeking admission to the
   HCVP operated by DCHA.
   
   Briefing – a meeting with HCVP staff and an applicant or participant
   designed to provide relevant information regarding the responsibilities and
   obligations to continued participation in the HCVP.
   
   Contract rent &#8211; The total amount of rent specified in the Housing
   Assistance Payments Contract as payable to the Owner by the Family and by the
   PHA to the Owner on the Family&#8217;s behalf, including any rent increase
   approved by the PHA after the first year of the Housing Assistance Payments
   Contract.
   
   	Cooperative &#8211; housing owned by a nonprofit corporation or association
   and where a member of the corporation or association has the right to reside
   in a particular apartment and to participate in the management of the housing.
   
   
   
   	Cooperative Member &#8211; a Family in which one or more members own
   membership shares in a cooperative.
   
   
   
   Dating violence &#8211; violence committed by a person who is or has been in a
   social relationship of a romantic or intimate nature with the victim; where
   the existence of such a relationship shall be determined based on a
   consideration of the length of the relationship, the type of relationship, and
   the frequency of interaction between the persons involved in the relationship.
   
   
   
   	DCHA &#8211; District of Columbia Housing Authority or any successor entity
   thereto.
   
   
   
   	Dependent &#8211; any Family member other than the Head of Household or
   Spouse who is under the age of 18 or who is 18 or older and is a person with
   disabilities or a full-time student.  Foster children, adult wards, and
   live-in aides are never considered Dependents.
   
   
   
   	Determination date &#8211; the date on which DCHA interviewed the Family.
   
   
   
   	Disabled Family shall have the definition set forth in 24 C.F.R. §5.403, as
   may be amended from time to time.
   
   
   
   Drug &#8211; a controlled substance as defined set forth in § 102 of the
   Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. § 802), as may be amended from time to
   time.
   
   
   
   Drug related criminal activity &#8211; the illegal manufacture, sale,
   distribution, or use of a drug, or the possession of a drug with the intent to
   manufacture, sell, distribute, or use the drug.
   
   
   
   Housing Assistance Payments Contract (Contract) &#8211; An executed contract
   between a PHA and an Owner for the purpose of providing housing assistance
   payments to the Owner on behalf of an eligible Family.
   
   
   
   Intrafamily violence or intrafamily offense shall include felony or
   misdemeanor crimes of violence committed by a current or former spouse of the
   victim, by a person with whom the victim shares a child in common, by a person
   who is cohabitating with or has cohabitated with the victim as a spouse, by a
   person similarly situated to a spouse of the victim under the domestic or
   family violence laws of the jurisdiction where the victim resides, or by any
   other person against an adult or youth victim who is protected from that
   person&#8217;s acts under the domestic or family violence laws of the
   jurisdiction where the victim resides.
   
   
   
   Elderly Family shall have the definition set forth in 24 C.F.R. § 5.403, as
   may be amended from time to time.
   
   
   
   	Eligible Family &#8211; a household of one (1) or more persons that meets the
   minimum eligibility requirements set forth in § 9203.
   
   
   
   Family shall have the definition set forth in 24 C.F.R. §5.403, as may be
   amended from time to time.
   
   
   
   Family Self-Sufficiency Program or “FSS program” shall have the same
   meaning given under 24 C.F.R. § 984.103.
   
   Fraud &#8211; a single act or pattern of actions that constitute a material
   false statement, misrepresentation, omission, or concealment of a substantial
   fact made by any applicant or participant (for example, tenant, landlord,
   employee, or contractor) with the intent to deceive or mislead. This includes,
   but is not limited to, any of the following activities:
   
   
   
   
   
   Family’s intentional failure to report (or underreporting) of any household
   income or assets;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Landlords accepting additional rent moneys from tenants, entering into
   “side-leases,” etc.;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Bribery or kickbacks;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   False claims;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Theft or embezzlement;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Forgery or alteration of documents;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Intentional destruction or concealment of records;  or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Profiting from a conflict of interest.
   
   
   
   	Full-time Basis &#8211; at least thirty (30) hours per week.
   
   
   
   	HCVP/HOAP &#8211; the Housing Choice Voucher Program operated by the District
   of Columbia Housing Authority.
   
   
   
   Head of Household  &#8211; the person who serves as the basis for income
   eligibility and rent determination and assumes legal responsibility for the
   household.  The Head of Household is also the person with sole authority to
   remove members to the Family composition and request adding Family members
   under the HCVP.
   
   
   
   Higher cost area &#8211; an area where a higher subsidy amount shall be paid
   for a Family because of higher payment standard amounts or “more generous”
   subsidy standards (for example, the Receiving PHA issues a three (3) bedroom
   voucher to a Family that received a two (2) bedroom voucher in DCHA).
   
   
   
   	HOAP Applicant Family &#8211; an Eligible Family that has been issued a
   Certificate of Completion and is in the process of obtaining a Preliminary
   Certificate of Assistance; Mortgage Pre-approval; Home Search Authorization;
   Final Certificate of Assistance.
   
   
   
   	HOAP Participating Family &#8211; A HOAP Applicant Family who has completed
   all the steps necessary to the purchase of a home and closed on their mortgage
   loan.
   
   
   
   	HOAP Subsidy or HCV/HOAP Assistance &#8211; the home ownership subsidy
   assistance for payment to a mortgage lender on behalf of a Participating
   Family as provided through the Housing Choice Voucher program in the amount as
   determined under § 9212.2.
   
   
   
   	Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCVP, HCV Program, Housing Program, or the
   Program) &#8211; the rental assistance program established by Section 8 of the
   United States Housing Act of 1937, 24 U.S.C. § 1437f (2006), in its entirety,
   unless otherwise specified.
   
   
   
   	Housing Quality Standards (HQS) &#8211; standard housing and minimum health
   and safety criteria for housing units as determined by HUD.
   
   
   
   	HQS HAP Abatement &#8211; when Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) are stopped,
   recaptured, or DCHA makes reasonable attempts to recapture from an owner HAP
   within one hundred and eighty (180) days of the date of a failed inspection.
   
   
   
   	Immediate family member &#8211; a spouse, parent, brother or sister, or child
   of that person, or an individual to whom that person stands in loco parentis;
   or any other person living in the household of that person and related to that
   person by blood, marriage, or operation of law.
   
   
   
   	Income Eligible Family &#8211; a Family that meets the eligibility
   requirements set forth in § 9203.2(c).
   
   
   
   Independent Student &#8211; an applicant or participant who lives apart from
   his or her parents and whose parents’ income will not be considered when
   determining the student’s eligibility for participation in the HCVP pursuant
   to § 5105.3 of this title.
   
   
   
   Institution of Higher Education &#8211; the types of institutions defined in
   the Higher Education Act of 1965, 20 U.S.C. § 1002 (2006).
   
   
   
   	Lease-Purchase Agreement &#8211; an agreement with an option to purchase a
   property entered into between a property owner and a tenant with the objective
   of the tenant having a right to exercise the right to purchase the leased
   property within a specified period time.
   
   
   
   	Live-in aide &#8211; a person who resides with one (1) or more elderly
   persons, near-elderly persons, or persons with disabilities, and who:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is determined to be necessary for the care and well-being of the
   person(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	Is not otherwise legally or financially obligated for the support of the
   person(s); and
   
   
   
   (c)	Would not be living in the unit except to provide the necessary supportive
   services.
   
   
   
   	Local preference definitions shall have the same meaning as the terms defined
   in § 7605.
   
   
   
   	Membership Share &#8211; ownership of a share of a cooperative that gives the
   shareowner the right to reside in a particular unit in the cooperative and the
   right to participate in management of the housing.
   
   
   
   		Minor &#8211; a person under the age of eighteen (18).
   
   
   
   Misrepresentation &#8211; the wrongful presentation of facts with an intention
   to mislead a person or authority thereby drawing undue advantage.
   
   
   
   Monthly income &#8211; one-twelfth (1/12) of Annual Income.
   
   
   
   Near Elderly shall have the definition set forth in 24 C.F.R. §5.403, as may
   be amended from time to time.
   
   
   
   Omission &#8211; failure to perform an act agreed to, where there is a duty to
   an individual or the public to act.
   
   
   
   Other Adult &#8211; a Family member who is not the Head of Household or the
   spouse of the Head of Household and is eighteen (18) years of age or older,
   who is not a person that is enrolled in school full-time or is disabled.
   Live-in aides are not considered to be other adult Family members
   
   Owner &#8211; any person or entity, including a cooperative, having the legal
   right to lease or sublease existing housing.
   
   Parents &#8211; biological or adoptive parents, stepparents (as long as they
   are currently married to or in a civil union or domestic partnership with to
   the biological or adoptive parent), guardians and kinship care providers (such
   as grandparents, aunt or uncle, and godparents).
   
   
   
   Participant &#8211; only Heads of Household and does not include any other
   member of the HCVP household composition.
   
   
   
   	Participating Lender &#8211; a lender who has agreed to participate in the
   HCV/HOAP and provide loans to borrowers under the terms and conditions of this
   program and has agreed to make loans to Participating HOAP Families which
   comply with the regulations herein, and are characterized by reasonable
   interest rates and repayment terms.
   
   
   
   	Payment Standard &#8211; the maximum monthly assistance payment for a Family
   as determined in accordance with chapter 53 of this title of the DCMR.
   
   
   
   Person with a Disability shall have the definition set forth in 24 C.F.R.
   §5.403, as may be amended from time to time.
   
   
   
   Public Housing Authority (PHA) &#8211; any HUD-approved entity that provides
   public housing and subsidized housing programs outside of the District of
   Columbia.
   
   
   
   Spouse &#8211; the marriage partner of the Head of Household.
   
   
   
   Stalking &#8211; following, pursuing, or repeatedly committing acts with the
   intent to kill, injure, harass, or intimidate another person; or placing under
   surveillance with the intent to kill, injure, harass, or intimidate another
   person; and in the course of, or as a result of, such following, pursuit,
   surveillance, or repeatedly committed acts, placing a person in reasonable
   fear of the death of, or serious bodily injury to, or to cause substantial
   emotional harm to that person, a member of the immediate family of that
   person, or the spouse or intimate partner of that person.
   
   
   
   	Total Tenant Payment (TTP) &#8211; the amount toward the rent payable by a
   tenant, determined in accordance with chapter 53 of this title of the DCMR.
   
   
   
   Threatened use of physical force &#8211; any verbal or written, or physical
   gestures that communicate an intent to cause serious bodily injury or property
   damage.
   
   
   
   Up-front income verification (UIV) &#8211; the use of the verification tools
   available from independent sources that maintain computerized information
   about income and benefits.
   
   
   
   Veteran &#8211; a person who served in the active military, naval, or air
   service and who was discharged or released from such service under conditions
   other than dishonorable.
   
   
   
   Violent criminal activity &#8211; any criminal activity that has as one of its
   elements the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force
   substantial enough to cause, or be reasonably likely to cause, serious bodily
   injury or property damage.
   
   
   
   Ward – an individual who a Court determines is an incapacitated person as
   defined in D.C. Official Code § 21-2011(11) (2011 Supp.).
   
   
   
   Zero assistance &#8211; DCHA is not providing a participant any HAP towards
   the monthly rent because the participant’s income is sufficient to pay the
   Contract rent.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7956 (June 29, 2012).
