                                  DC REGULATIONS

CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES (§ 20-6501)

6501.1. The Director shall certify to perform UST System activities as set
   forth in §6500 in the District of Columbia, any individuals who satisfy the
   following requirements:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Show evidence of having satisfactory completion of a recognized  training
   program in the UST System activity(ies) for which the applicant seeks
   certification;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Submission of a completed application and payment of the initial   application
   fee of $200.00 in the form of a check made payable to the D.C. Treasurer;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Possess a current OSHA certification; and
   
   
   
   (d) 	Satisfactory completion of a test upon their knowledge in the technical
   area in which they seek certification as well as the District&#8217;s statutes
   and regulations pertaining to USTs.

   6501.2. The Director shall certify businesses that wish to perform UST System
   activities in the District of Columbia, as set forth in §6500, provided they
   satisfy the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)  	Submission of a completed application and payment of the initial
   application fee of $350.00 in the form of a check made payable to the D.C.
   Treasurer;
   
   
   
   (b)  	Demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Director, that the business is
   qualified to perform the UST System activities for which it seeks
   certification;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Director, that the business
   employs at least one individual who has expertise and is certified in the
   District in each of the UST System activities the business will offer;
   
   
   
   (d)  	Possess a current OSHA certification; and
   
   
   
   		(e)  	Possess a valid, current District of Columbia business license for
   
   		      	the business in which certification is sought.
   
   
   
   6501.3 	The Director may recognize individuals or businesses that are
   certified by neighboring states and so certify, to perform UST System
   activities as set forth in § 6500, individuals or businesses that satisfy the
   requirements of this section:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Possess a current valid certification as a UST System Technician, Closer
   Specialist or Tester, or an equivalent certification category as determined by
   the Director, issued by either of the states of Virginia, West Virginia,
   Maryland, Delaware, or Pennsylvania;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Are currently in good standing in each of the states, named in
   §6501.3(a), for which it holds a certification;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Possess a current OSHA certification;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Possess a valid, current District of Columbia business license for the
   business in which certification is sought;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Director, a knowledge of the
   provisions of this Subtitle; and
   
   
   
   (f) 	Submit a completed application form and pay an initial application fee of
   $150.00 for individuals or $250 for businesses.
   
   
   
   6501.4 	An applicant certified in one of the states in §6501.3(a) may be
   tested by the Director to verify the knowledge of the provisions of this
   subtitle or shall submit the following documents or information with the
   application for certification:
   
   
   
    (a) 	A letter or statement from the state official or office in which the
   individual or business is currently certified stating that the individual or
   business is currently in good standing in that state;
   
   
   
   (b) 	A list of additional states in which the individual or business is
   certified and/or licensed as a UST System Technician, Closer Specialist or
   Tester, or an equivalent certification category;
   
   
   
   (c) 	A copy of the current OSHA certification;
   
   
   
   (d) 	A copy of a valid, current District of Columbia business license for the
   business in which certification is sought;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Submission of an initial application fee of $100 for individual or $250
   for business by check or money order made payable to the D.C. Treasurer; and
   
   
   
   (f) 	Evidence of possession of the District of Columbia UST regulation and its
   amendments.

   6501.5. An applicant who relies upon an out-of-state certification may only be
   certified in the same UST System activity, as determined by the Director, in
   which the out-of-state certification was received.
   
   
   
   6501.6 	The initial certification issued by the Director shall be valid for no
   more than one (1) year from date of issue. The Certification may be renewed
   annually for a fee of $100 for individuals or $150 for businesses upon
   presentation of the expiring certification or renewed bi-annually for a fee of
   $200 for individuals, or $300 for businesses, upon presentation of the
   expiring certification.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 6678 (August 21, 2009).
