                                  DC REGULATIONS

OPERATOR TRAINING (§ 20-6502)

An owner of any active regulated UST system in the District shall designate at
least one Class A, one Class B, and one Class C operator for each active UST
facility.







A facility may not dispense or store a regulated substance after August 8, 2012,
unless operators have been designated and trained as required in this Section.







Trained operators shall be readily available to respond to suspected or
confirmed releases, other unusual operating conditions, emergencies and
equipment failures as follows:







Either the Class A or the Class B operator shall be available for immediate
telephone consultation at all times when a facility is in operation;







A Class A or B operator shall be on-site at the UST facility within 24 hours of
being contacted;







For manned facilities, a Class C operator shall be on-site whenever the facility
is in operation; and







For unmanned facilities, a Class C operator shall be available for immediate
telephone consultation and shall be able to be on-site within 2 hours of being
contacted.







Emergency contact information shall be prominently displayed at the facility. 
Emergency procedures for users of unmanned facilities shall also be prominently
posted at the facility.







Designated operators shall successfully complete required initial training under
this Section by August 8, 2012.







An operator may be designated as more than one class of operator.







All operators designated as Class A and/or Class B for a petroleum UST system
that has been determined to be out of compliance with a requirement or standard
in this Subtitle shall, at a minimum, be required to repeat the training
applicable to the area(s) with which the UST system has not complied.  Operators
shall complete the required retraining within a reasonable time, not to exceed
sixty (60) days of being notified that the UST system is out of compliance.







A Class A operator has primary responsibility to operate and maintain the UST
system and facility.  The Class A operator’s responsibilities include managing
resources and personnel, such as establishing work assignments, to achieve and
maintain compliance with regulatory requirements.  In general, a Class A
operator focuses on the broader aspects of the statutory and regulatory
requirements and standards necessary to properly operate and maintain the UST
system and facility.  Class A operators shall:







Ensure that UST systems are properly installed and expeditiously repaired and
that records of UST financial responsibility, system installation, modification
and repair are retained and made available to the Director;







Be familiar with training requirements for each class of operator and may
provide required training for Class C operators; and







Prepare facility procedures for Class B and C operators.







A Class B operator implements applicable UST system regulatory requirements and
standards in the field or at the UST facility.  A Class B operator oversees and
implements the day-to-day aspects of operations, maintenance, and recordkeeping
for the UST(s) at one or more facilities as stated in this regulation.  Class B
operators shall:







Check spill prevention and overfill control equipment and corrosion protection
equipment to ensure proper function and that any required system tests are
performed at appropriate intervals;







Ensure release detection equipment is operational, release detection is
performed at proper intervals and release detection records are retained and
made available to the Director; and







Shall be familiar with all aspects of Class B and Class C operator
responsibilities and may provide required training for Class C operators.







A Class C operator is the first line of response to events indicating an
emergency condition.  A Class C operator is responsible for responding to alarms
or other indications of emergencies caused by a spill or release from a UST
system and equipment failures.  The Class C operator notifies the Class A or B
operator and appropriate emergency responders when necessary.  There may be more
than one Class C operator at a UST facility.  Class C operators shall:







Control or monitor the dispensing and sale of regulated substances; and







After August 8, 2012, follow written instructions or procedures on how to
respond to alarms or releases provided by the Class A or Class B operators and
made visible at manned UST facilities, and shall be readily available for
unmanned facilities for persons performing the duties of the Class C operator.







Class A operators shall successfully complete a training course approved by the
Director that includes a general knowledge of UST system requirements.  At the
completion of the training course, the operator shall be able to demonstrate
knowledge and be able to make informed decisions regarding compliance and
ensuring that appropriate persons are fulfilling operation, maintenance and
recordkeeping requirements and standards, including the following:







Spill and overfill prevention;







Release detection and related reporting requirements;







Corrosion protection;







Emergency response;







Product and equipment compatibility;







Financial responsibility;







Notification and UST registration requirements;







Temporary and permanent UST closure requirements; and







Class B, and C operator training requirements.







Class B operators shall successfully complete a training course approved by the
Director that includes in-depth understanding of operation and maintenance
aspects of UST systems and related regulatory requirements.  Training shall
provide specific information pertaining to the components of UST systems,
materials of construction, methods of release detection, and release prevention
applied to UST systems and components.  Training and knowledge shall address the
operation and maintenance requirements of this regulation including the
following:







Spill and overfill prevention;







Release detection and related reporting requirements;







Corrosion protection;







Emergency response;







Product and equipment compatibility;







Report and recordkeeping requirements; and







Class C operator training requirements.







At a minimum, training provided by the Class A or B operator shall enable the
Class C operator to take action in response to emergencies or alarms caused by
spills or releases from a UST system.  Training shall include written
instructions or procedures for the Class C operator to follow and to provide
notification necessary in the event of emergency conditions.  After the initial
training, Class C operators shall be briefed by the Class A or B operator on
these instructions or procedures at least annually (every 12 months).







Successful completion of training for Class A and B operators means attendance
for the entire training course and demonstration of knowledge of the course
material as follows:







Receipt of a passing grade (80% or higher) on an examination containing material
presented in the training course; or demonstration to the trainer at the
conclusion of on-site training, through practical (hands-on) application, of
operation and maintenance checks of UST equipment, including performance of
release detection at the UST facility; and







Receipt of a training certificate by an approved trainer upon verification of
successful completion of training course.







Class A or Class B operators may meet the operator training requirements of this
Section by presenting proof of successful completion of Class A and Class B
operator training from another State, in accordance with regulatory standards
consistent with 40 CFR Part 280 and with Title 20 Chapter 65 of the District of
Columbia Municipal Regulations (20 DCMR Chapter 65).







An owner shall ensure that all Class A, B, and C operators are trained no later
than August 8, 2012.







When a Class A or B operator is replaced, a new operator shall be trained within
30 days of assuming duties for that class of operator.







Class C operators shall be trained before assuming duties of a Class C operator.







The owner of an underground storage tank shall maintain a list of designated
operators.  The list shall represent the current Class A, B, and C operators for
the petroleum storage facilities and shall include:







The name of each operator, class of operation designated and the date each
operator successfully completed training; and







For Class A and B operators that are not permanently on-site or who are assigned
to more than one facility, emergency telephone numbers to contact the operators.







A copy of the following documentation shall be on-site, and readily available
for inspection at the facility:







Certificates of training for Class A and B operators;







A copy of the facility list of Class A, B, and C operators; and







Class C operator instructions or procedures.







Class C operator and owner contact information, including names and telephone
numbers and any emergency information, shall be conspicuously posted at unmanned
facilities.











SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 6678 (August 21, 2009).
