                                  DC REGULATIONS

INTERSTITIAL MONITORING (ยง 20-6011)

6011.1. Interstitial monitoring between an UST system and a secondary barrier
   immediately around or beneath the UST system may be used, but only if the
   system is designed, constructed, and installed to detect a leak from any
   portion of the tank or piping that routinely contains product and also meets
   the requirements of this section which are applicable to the particular UST
   system.

   6011.2. For double-walled UST systems, the sampling or testing method shall be
   capable of detecting a release through the inner wall in any portion of the
   tank that routinely contains a regulated substance.

   6011.3. Where vacuum monitoring is utilized, the vacuum must be maintained at
   not less than five inches (5&#8243;) of mercury and shall not exceed
   manufacturer&#8217;s instructions. If the vacuum falls below five inches
   (5&#8243;) of mercury, the owner or operator shall report a suspected release
   to the Director. A vacuum shall not be re-instituted more frequently than once
   every three (3) months without prior approval of the Director.

   6011.4. For tanks with an internally fitted liner, an automated device shall
   be used that is capable of detecting a release between the inner wall of the
   tank and the liner. The liner shall be compatible with the substance stored.

   6011.5. For UST systems with a secondary barrier within the excavation zone,
   the secondary barrier shall meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	The barrier, around or beneath the UST system, shall consist of synthetic
   constructed material that is sufficiently thick and impermeable to direct a
   release to the monitoring point and permit its detection. The permeability
   shall be not greater than one millionth of a centimeter per second (10 cm/sec)
   for the regulated substance stored;
   
   
   
   (b)	The barrier shall be compatible with the regulated substance stored so
   that a release from the UST system will not cause a deterioration of the
   barrier allowing a release to pass through undetected; and
   
   
   
   (c)	If the tank is cathodically protected, the barrier shall be installed so
   that it does not interfere with the proper operation of the cathodic
   protection system.

   6011.6. An UST system with a secondary barrier within the excavation zone
   shall use a sampling or testing method that is capable of detecting a release
   between the UST system and the secondary barrier. The testing or sampling
   method used shall not be reduced in effectiveness or rendered inoperative by
   ground-water, rainfall, soil moisture, or any other known interference to the
   point that a release could go undetected for more than fifteen (15) days.

   6011.7. The owner or operator of an UST system with a secondary barrier within
   the excavation zone shall assess the site to ensure that the secondary barrier
   is always above the ground water and not in a twenty-five (25) year flood
   plain, unless the barrier and monitoring designs are designed for use under
   those conditions.

   6011.8. The monitoring wells for each UST system with a secondary barrier
   within the excavation zone shall be clearly marked and secured to avoid
   unauthorized access and tampering.
   
   
   
   6011.9  	Interstitial monitoring shall be used to check for evidence of a
   release at least once every thirty (30) days on secondary containment systems
   on underground tanks and piping installed or replaced after February 8, 2007.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7835, 7875 (November 12, 1993);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 6678 (August 21, 2009).
