                                  DC REGULATIONS

RENEWAL OF EXPIRED LICENSES (ยง 17-409)

409.1. Reexamination and a fee of three dollars ($3) shall be required for the
   renewal of licenses that have been allowed to lapse.

   409.2. Any person licensed under the authority of this chapter who has failed
   to renew his or her license prior to its expiration shall be permitted to
   renew the license without being required to take an examination in connection
   with the renewal, subject to the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the license was not revoked during the period for which it was
   issued, and was in full force and effect on the date of expiration; and
   
   
   
   (b)	That application for renewal has been made in writing within thirty (30)
   days after the date the license expired.

   409.3. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as authorizing or
   permitting the holder of a license which has expired and has not been renewed
   to continue to operate as if he or she were still holding a valid license.

   409.4. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as waiving any
   person from engaging in an activity for which a license is required without
   having first been issued a valid license to engage in that activity.

   409.5. If a license expires while the licensee is in service in the U.S. Armed
   Forces, the license may be renewed without further examination upon
   presentation of his or her license to the Chairperson of the Board of
   Examiners within six (6) months after discharge with proof that the licensee
   was serving in the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard at the
   date of the expiration of the license.

   409.6. The usual renewal fee of three dollars ($3) shall be paid, and the new
   expiration date shall be one (1) year from the date of approval by the
   Chairman of the Board of Examiners. All licenses issued under this section
   shall expire September 30 of each year.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: ยง6.1 of Commissioners&#8217; Order No. 301, 945, 5M DCRR ยง6.1.
