                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSED OPERATORS (§ 17-400)

400.1. The operation and maintenance of the following equipment shall be
   exempt from the requirement of having licensed operating engineers:
   
   
   
   (a)	Vehicles operated under the regulations of the D.C. Public Service
   Commission or the U.S. Interstate Commerce Commission;
   
   
   
   (b)	Machinery on boats or vessels operated under the regulations of the United
   States Coast Guard;
   
   
   
   (c)	Automotive vehicles used solely for traction purposes;
   
   
   
   (d)	Packaged, self-contained air conditioning units;
   
   
   
   (e)	Automatically operated air conditioning systems with non-toxic and
   non-inflammable refrigerant and not over a total of one hundred twenty-five
   (125) compressor horsepower, where no one refrigerant circuit is in excess of
   seventy-five (75) horsepower;
   
   
   
   (f)	Automatically operated air conditioning systems using the heat absorption
   cycle with a non-toxic and non-inflammable refrigerant and not over a total of
   one hundred twenty-five (125) tons of refrigeration, where no one refrigerant
   circuit is in excess of seventy-five (75) tons, except where a boiler of a
   type and capacity that requires a licensed engineer is used;
   
   
   
   (g)	Cold storage and refrigeration systems using non-toxic and non-inflammable
   refrigerant not in excess of seventy-five (75) compressor horsepower;
   
   
   
   (h)	Cold storage and refrigeration systems using the heat absorption cycle
   with a non-toxic and non-inflammable refrigerant not in excess of forty (40)
   tons;
   
   
   
   (i)	Cold storage and refrigeration systems using toxic or inflammable
   refrigerant not in excess of five (5) compressor horsepower;
   
   
   
   (j)	Cold storage and refrigeration systems using the heat absorption cycle
   with a toxic or inflammable refrigerant not in excess of three (3) tons;
   
   
   
   (k)	Automatically operated pumping stations;
   
   
   
   (l)	Hot water heating boilers where the total boiler horsepower is not in
   excess of seventy-five (75) horsepower [sixteen thousand eight hundred square
   feet (16,800 ft.2) of water radiation at one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
   (150° F.)];
   
   
   
   (m)	Air compressors having a capacity of less than one hundred ten cubic feet
   per minute (110 ft.3/min.) at one hundred pounds per square inch (100
   lbs./in.2) pressure;
   
   
   
   (n)	Motor or engine driven electric generator sets used for welding or
   lighting not in excess of fifty kilovolt amperes (50 KVA); or
   
   
   
   (o)	Low pressure steam boilers having gravity or trap returns.

   400.2. The operation and maintenance of the following equipment shall be by or
   under the daily supervision of a steam or other operating engineer who is duly
   licensed in the proper class by the Board of Examiners for Steam and Other
   Operating Engineers in the District of Columbia:
   
   
   
   (a)	Boilers and boiler auxiliaries;
   
   
   
   (b)	Steam engines;
   
   
   
   (c)	Refrigeration equipment with non-toxic and non-inflammable refrigerant
   driven by electric motors in excess of twenty-five (25) horsepower;
   
   
   
   (d)	Refrigeration systems using the heat absorption cycle with non-toxic and
   non-inflammable refrigerant;
   
   
   
   (e)	Refrigeration systems of five (5) or more compressor horsepower using a
   toxic or inflammable refrigerant;
   
   
   
   (f)	Refrigeration systems of three (3) or more tons using the heat absorption
   cycle with a toxic or inflammable refrigerant;
   
   
   
   (g)	Internal combustion engines in excess of twenty-five (25) horsepower; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Air compressors driven by electric motors or internal combustion engines.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: Unless otherwise noted, the authority for this chapter is An Act
   to regulate steam-engineering in the District of Columbia, approved February
   28, 1887, 24 Stat. 427, ch. 272. Sec. 2.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: §§1.1 and 1.2 of Commissioners&#8217; Order No. 301, 945, 5M DCRR
   §§1.1 and 1.2.
