                                  DC REGULATIONS

INFORMAL DISPUTE RESOLUTION (§ 29-4014)

4014.1. The provisions contained in this section and in § 4015 shall
   establish an informal procedure for resolution of disputes between the grantee
   and the Director.

   4014.2. The procedures shall apply to the following adverse determinations
   made by the Grant Officer:
   
   
   
   (a)	Suspension or termination of a grant in whole or in part or a refusal to
   reinstate a suspended grant;
   
   
   
   (b)	A disallowance of expenditures; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A denial of a noncompeting continuation of a grant award if the denial is
   for failure to comply with the terms of the award.

   4014.3. The Grant Officer shall notify the grantee, in writing, of any adverse
   determination and shall state the reasons for the determination in sufficient
   detail to enable the grantee to respond, and shall give the grantee notice
   that the grantee may request a review of the adverse determination.

   4014.4. A grantee may request a review of the adverse determination by
   submitting a written request for review to the Director no later than thirty
   (30) days after receipt of the notice of determination.

   4014.5. The grantee’s request for a review of the adverse determination
   shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A copy of the Grant Officer’s determination;
   
   
   
   (b)	Identification of the issue in dispute;
   
   
   
   (c)	A full statement of the grantee’s position regarding the issue in
   dispute and the pertinent facts and reasons in support of the grantee’s
   position; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Copies of any documents supporting the grantee’s claim.

   4014.6. If the grantee submits a request for review, the Director shall
   conduct an informal hearing in accordance with the requirements of this
   section or he or she shall appoint a hearing officer to conduct the hearing.

   4014.7. The Director shall send by certified mail a written notice to the
   grantee of the time and place scheduled for the informal hearing within
   fifteen (15) calendar days from the receipt of the grantee’s request to the
   Department for a hearing.

   4014.8. The grantee may be accompanied or represented at the informal hearing
   by legal counsel or other person chosen by the grantee.

   4014.9. If a hearing officer conducts the hearing, he or she shall render a
   written recommendation to the Director regarding whether to sustain or
   overrule the adverse determination of the Grant Officer.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 38 DCR 6302, 6313 (October 11, 1991).
