                                  DC REGULATIONS

PERMIT CONDITIONS (§ 21-1505)

The following minimum conditions shall be incorporated into, and made a part of
every Wastewater Discharge Permit, whether such conditions are recited therein
or not:



(a)	The Industrial User shall report the actual wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;



(b)	The Industrial User shall report significant changes in operation, and in
wastewater constituents and characteristics;



(c)	The Industrial User shall allow reasonable access to its premises for the
purpose of inspection or wastewater monitoring; and



(d)	The Industrial User shall comply with each and every term and condition of
the permit.







Wastewater Discharge Permit holders shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter. Individual or general permits may contain any or all of the following:



(a)	Statement of duration (issuance date, effective date, and expiration date);



(b)	Statement of non-transferability without prior notification to WASA in
accordance with § 1505.10-1505.13, and requirement to provide the new owner or
operator with a copy of the existing Wastewater Discharge Permit;



(c)	Limits on rate and time of discharge and requirements for flow regulation
and equalization;



(d)	Effluent limits, including average and maximum wastewater constituents and
concentrations and Best Management Practices, based on applicable general
pretreatment standards, Categorical Pretreatment Standards, local limits, and
State and local law;



(e)	Requirements for installation of inspection and sampling facilities;



(f)	Pretreatment requirements;



(g)	Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and recordkeeping
requirements, Best Management Practices to be monitored, an identification of
the pollutants to be monitored (including the process for seeking a waiver for a
pollutant neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(2) and § 1507.11, or a specific waived
pollutant in the case of an individual control mechanism), sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type, based on the applicable general
pretreatment standards in 40 C.F.R. § 403, Categorical Pretreatment Standards,
local limits, and State and local law;



(h)	Requirement for immediate notification to WASA where self-monitoring results
indicate non-compliance and to repeat sampling and analysis and submit results
to WASA within thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the violation;



(i)	Requirement to immediately report a bypass or upset of a pretreatment
facility and all discharges, including slug loadings, that could adversely
impact the District’s wastewater system;



 (j)	Requirements for notification of, and acceptance by, WASA of any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or of any substantial change in the
volume or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater system;



(k)	Requirements for disposal of sludges, floats, and skimmings;



(l)	Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports,
including the submission of data obtained from monitoring which is conducted by
the Industrial User, but which is not required by law, and frequency of
submission;



(m)	Requirements for maintaining records relating to wastewater discharge,
including but not limited to, records of all information resulting from any
monitoring activities, including documentation associated with Best Management
Practices;



(n)	Requirements for payment of permit fees, sampling and analysis fees, high
strength waste fees, or other fees, as provided in chapter 1 of this title;



(o)	Requirements to control slug discharges, if WASA determines that is
necessary;



(p)	Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation of
pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable compliance schedule;
and



(q)	Additional requirements as that WASA may determine.







Wastewater Discharge Permit holders shall make available to their employees
copies of this chapter and any other wastewater information and notices which
WASA may furnish from time to time to achieve more effective water pollution
control. A notice shall be furnished and permanently posted by the Industrial
User in a conspicuous place advising employees whom to call in case of any
discharge or accident in violation of this chapter.







Wastewater Discharge Permits issued by User Jurisdictions that are not required
to implement a pretreatment program by applicable federal law shall contain the
condition(s) enumerated in §§ 1505.2 and 1518.7, appropriate to the facts and
circumstances of such User Jurisdiction.







Permits for Industrial Users shall be issued for a specified period of time and
in no event shall a permit extend beyond five (5) years from the effective date
of the permit.







Industrial Users shall apply to renew their permit at least thirty (30) days
prior to the expiration date of their permit. Upon request by an Industrial
User, WASA may grant permission to submit an application to renew the permit at
a later date, but no later than the date of expiration of the permit.  Failure
to timely renew a permit shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall
be subject to the fines and penalties set forth in § 1516.







If an Industrial User has timely applied to renew their permit and has submitted
any additional information that WASA may request in connection with the
application, and WASA does not issue a new permit before the expiration date of
the previous permit, the previous permit shall be extended administratively and
shall remain fully effective and enforceable.







When WASA proposes changes in a permit before the expiration date of the permit,
the permit holder shall be notified in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to
the effective date of the changes. The notice shall include a specific time
schedule for compliance if new pretreatment or control facilities are required.
The time schedule shall be based on practical delivery and construction time
requirements, and shall become a part of the permit.







Wastewater Discharge Permits shall be issued to specific Industrial Users for
specific operations.







A Wastewater Discharge Permit may be assignable or transferable to another owner
or operator only if:







the Permittee gives advance written notice to WASA at least fourteen (14) days
prior to execution of the assignment or transfer;







the Permittee gives the new owner or operator a copy of the existing Wastewater
Discharge Permit; and







WASA approves the Wastewater Discharge Permit transfer.







The Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer notice shall include a written
certification by the new owner or operator, which:







States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent to change the
facility’s operations and processes;







Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and







Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing Wastewater
Discharge Permit.







A Wastewater Discharge Permit shall not be transferable to a new or
significantly changed operation. The new Industrial User shall submit a new
application for a Wastewater Discharge Permit and shall obtain a new permit
prior to instituting a new or significantly changed operation.







Any attempt to assign or transfer a Wastewater Discharge Permit without prior
notice to WASA and WASA’s approval shall render the permit void from the date
of the attempted assignment or transfer.







Industrial Users may petition the General Manager to reconsider the issuance,
revocation or denial of a Wastewater Discharge Permit or the terms or conditions
of a discharge permit within fifteen (15) calendar days of the effective date of
the permit by submission of a Permit Appeal form.  The submission of a Permit
Appeal for reconsideration shall not stay compliance with Wastewater Discharge
Permit conditions.







Failure to submit a timely Permit Appeal for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of administrative appeal unless a time extension is granted by the
General Manager.







In the Permit Appeal, the Industrial User shall indicate the discharge permit
provisions objected to, the reasons for the objection, and the alternative
condition, if any, it seeks to place in the discharge permit.







The General Manager shall review and make a final decision on the Permit Appeal.
 The General Manager will send the Industrial User the final decision.







If the Permit Appeal is denied by the General Manager or the Permittee is not
satisfied with the General Manager’s final decision, the Industrial User may
appeal the Permit Appeal decision as set forth in § 1519 by filing a petition
for an administrative hearing within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date of
the General Manager’s final decision.  The petition for an administrative
hearing shall be filed in accordance with the requirements set forth in 21 DCMR
§ 412.



	Source: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 6194, 6195 (October 10, 1986); as
		amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2948 (April 28, 2000); as
amended by 	Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1021, 1034, 1044
(February 10, 2012).
