                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICES (§ 21-1503)

To collect information consistent with the purposes of the Act and this chapter,
WASA may require any party who discharges, or whom WASA reasonably believes
discharges, into the District&#8217;s wastewater system, to provide reports
concerning the nature, contents, quantity and frequency of such discharges and
the party&#8217;s actions, if any, to monitor or alter such discharges. WASA may
require such reports regardless of whether the party shall have a permit under
the Act.







WASA may issue a discharge notification letter to such parties, identifying what
specific information is sought, the frequency with which the information shall
be provided, and a statement concerning the period of time during which the
obligation to provide such information will continue.







All Industrial Users shall promptly notify WASA prior to any new or increased
contribution of pollutants or change in the nature of pollutants or substantial
change in the volume or character of pollutants in their discharge, including
the listed and characteristic hazardous waste for which the Industrial User has
submitted initial notification under § 1503.6. WASA reserves the right to
prohibit or impose conditions on the discharge of any new, increased or changed
contribution of pollutants.







All Industrial Users that experience an unplanned discharge due to a spill, slug
discharge, or other potential problem, shall notify WASA as follows:







All Industrial Users shall notify WASA immediately of all discharges that could
cause problems to the District’s wastewater system, including any slug
loadings, which are defined as pollutant discharges which violate the specific
prohibitions under § 1501.4;







The notification shall include the date, time, and location of the discharge;
type, concentration and volume of waste; and corrective actions.  The Industrial
User shall be liable for any expense, loss, or damage to the District’s
wastewater system, in addition to any fines that WASA imposes;







Within five (5) days following the unplanned discharge, the Industrial User
shall submit to WASA a detailed written report describing the cause of the
discharge and the measures to be taken by the Industrial User to prevent similar
occurrences in the future; and







If the unplanned discharge contains a listed or characteristic hazardous waste,
as defined in 40 C.F.R. Part 261 and District regulations, the Industrial User
shall also comply with the requirements of § 1503.6(a).







Notice of Changed Discharge &#8211; All Significant Industrial Users are
required to notify WASA immediately of any changes at their facility affecting
the potential for a slug discharge.







All Industrial Users proposing to discharge hazardous waste into the
District’s wastewater system shall comply with the following requirements:







Industrial Users shall make a written notification to WASA, the Mayor, and the
director of EPA’s Region III Waste Management Division, prior to a discharge
into the District’s wastewater system of a substance which, if otherwise
disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. Part 261 and District
regulations.  Such notification shall include:







The name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 261;







EPA hazardous waste number;







The type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other); and







A statement certifying that the Industrial User has a program in place to reduce
the volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has
determined to be economically practical;







If the Industrial User intends to discharge more than one hundred kilograms (100
kg) of hazardous waste per calendar month to the District’s wastewater system,
the notification shall also contain the following information to the extent the
information is known and readily available to the Industrial User:



(1)	An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes;



(2)	An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the
wastestream to be discharged during the calendar month; and



(3)	An estimation of the mass of constituents in the wastestream expected to be
discharged during the following twelve (12) months;







Industrial Users shall provide notification prior to the discharge of a listed
or characteristic hazardous waste. This notification shall be submitted only
once for each hazardous waste intended to be discharged. However, notifications
of changed discharges shall be submitted under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(j) and §
1503.5. The notification requirement, however, does not apply to pollutants
already reported under the self-monitoring requirements of 40 C.F.R. §
403.12(b), (d), and (e) and § 1508; and







WASA shall review the hazardous waste discharge notification and may issue a new
or revised pretreatment permit.  Industrial Users shall not discharge a listed
or characteristic hazardous waste prior to the issuance of a pretreatment permit
that authorizes the discharge.







In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act (RCRA) identifying additional characteristics of hazardous
waste or listing any additional substance as a hazardous waste, the Industrial
User shall notify WASA, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division
Director, and the District of Columbia hazardous waste authorities of the
discharge of such substance within ninety (90) days of the effective date of
such regulations.



Source: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 6194, 6195 (October 10, 1986); as
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2948 (April 28, 2000); as
amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1021, 1034, 1038
(February 10, 2012).
