                                  DC REGULATIONS

JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES (ยง 21-1517)

Notwithstanding any other remedial authority conferred by the Act or this
chapter, WASA may seek declaratory, injunctive or other appropriate relief to
restrain, minimize, halt, prevent, or eliminate a violation or imminent
violation of any provision of this chapter.







Any User who violates any provision of the Act or this chapter shall be liable
for a civil fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000) for each day
during which each violation continues, and shall be required to perform any
other action needed to correct any harm caused by any violation or to ensure
that future violations do not occur as set forth in D.C. Official Code ยง
8-105.14(a)(2008 Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.)).







WASA may add any such civil fines and cost to the bill for the User&#8217;s
usual sanitary sewer service charges, high-strength waste fees, wastewater
treatment fees, administrative fines, and other fees, or may issue a separate
bill for civil fines and costs.







Any User who violates any provision of the Act or this chapter shall be liable
to the District and WASA for all expenses, losses, or damages incurred by the
District and WASA by reason of the violation.







Any person who intentionally, willfully or recklessly violates any provision of
the Act or this chapter shall be punished by a criminal fine not to exceed ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) for each day each violation continues, or
imprisonment not to exceed one (1) year for each day each violation continues,
or both, and to perform any other action needed to correct any harm caused by
any violation or to ensure that future violations do not occur, as set forth in
D.C. Official Code ยง 8-105.14(b) (2008 Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.)).







Any User who knowingly makes any false or misleading statement, representation
or certification with respect to any information or data submitted to, or
required by, the District pursuant to the Act or this chapter, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method,
samples or the results of same, upon conviction in a court of competent
jurisdiction shall be liable for a fine of up to ten thousand dollars ($10,000)
for each count of such conviction.











		Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1021, 1087 (February
10, 2012).
