                                  DC REGULATIONS

ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES (ยง 21-1514)

Any notice, order, pleading, or other document produced by a party, including
WASA, in response to an enforcement action brought pursuant to section 8 of the
Wastewater System Regulation Act of 1985 (D.C. Law 6-95; D.C. Official Code ยง
8-105.07 (2008 Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.)), shall be served on all of the other
party(s) to the action, by hand delivery or by first class mail to the address
of record of each party.







The address of record for:







Any party who has applied for, or been issued, a wastewater discharge permit
pursuant to the Wastewater System Regulation Act, shall be the address specified
on the permit application, unless that party provides written notice to WASA and
to the other party(s) to the action that a different address should be used;







WASA shall be, Office of the General Manager &#8211; Administrative Enforcement
Proceedings, D.C. Water and Sewer Authority, 5000 Overlook Ave, SW, Washington,
D.C. 20032; and







Any other party shall be the last known address of that party, unless that party
provides written notice to WASA and any other party to the action that a
different address should be used.







Service upon a party, or an attorney representing a party, shall occur at the
time of hand delivery; or, if service is done by mail, by the date of the
postmark on the envelope in which the document was sent, plus three (3) business
days.







An answer to a Notice of Infraction and Proposed Order, shall be served on WASA,
and any other party to the action, within thirty (30) days after the date of
service of the Notice of Infraction and Proposed Order.







A response to any motion filed in an action shall be served on all the parties
within thirty (30) days after the date of service of the motion or other
pleading.







The hearing examiner may extend the thirty (30) day deadline imposed by this
section upon a showing of good cause by the party seeking the extension.







Unless otherwise directed by the hearing examiner, all requests to the hearing
examiner for an order or other relief, except for the Proposed Order
accompanying WASA&#8217;s Notice of Infraction, shall be made by motion, in
writing, except that motions made during a hearing may be made orally.







The hearing examiner may decide a motion with or without a hearing.







If a moving party fails to appear at a hearing on its motion, the hearing
examiner may treat the motion as withdrawn, and the motion may be refiled only
with the permission of the hearing examiner, upon a showing of good cause by the
moving party.







If the opposing party fails to appear at the hearing, the hearing examiner may
treat the motion as conceded and grant the motion, except that the opposing
party may request that the hearing examiner vacate the order granting the
motion, upon a showing of good cause by the opposing party.







All parties are encouraged to engage in voluntary discovery. Discovery may be
obtained by any of the following methods:







Depositions upon oral examination or written questions;







Written interrogatories;







Requests for production of documents or other intangible things;







Requests to conduct site visits; and







Requests for admissions.







Responses to requests for discovery shall be provided within thirty (30) days
unless the parties agree to a different deadline or the hearing examiner, upon
motion by one of the parties and for good cause shown, establishes a different
deadline.







If a party fails to permit or provide discovery, an aggrieved party may file a
motion to compel discovery with the hearing examiner.







When determining whether to admit any material or testimony into evidence, the
hearing examiner shall be guided by the rules of evidence applicable in civil
proceedings in the D.C. Superior Court. If the hearing examiner concludes that
the admission of evidence that would not be permitted by the court would be
helpful to the determination of the matter before him or her, the hearing
examiner may admit that testimony or material into evidence.



	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 6194, 6202 (October 10, 1986); as
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2948 (April 28, 2000); as
amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1021, 1074 (February
10, 2012).
