                                  DC REGULATIONS

AGREEMENTS WITH USER JURISDICTIONS (§ 21-1518)

1518.1. Each User Jurisdiction proposing to directly or indirectly connect to
   or discharge into, the wastewater system of the District shall execute a
   pretreatment agreement with the District before the connection of discharge
   into the wastewater system.

   1518.2. Each User Jurisdiction which is directly or indirectly connected to,
   or discharging into, the wastewater system of the District as of October 10,
   1986, shall maintain an executed pretreatment agreement with the District.

   1518.3. For User Jurisdictions in the State of Maryland, the pretreatment
   agreement shall be executed by the Washington Suburban Sanitary Commission on
   behalf of Montgomery and Prince George&#8217;s Counties.

   1518.4. The Inter-Municipal Agreement may be executed in lieu of a
   pretreatment agreement provided that it contains all of the provisions of §
   1518.7.

   1518.5. Only WASA shall issue Wastewater Discharge Permits to the following
   Industrial Users of the Potomac Interceptor:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   National Park Service;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Department of Navy.

   1518.6. Each User Jurisdiction shall provide WASA with at least the following
   information about every Significant Industrial User located within the User
   Jurisdiction:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Name, address, office telephone number, Standard Industrial Classification
   number(s), or North American Industrial Classification number(s);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Volume of wastewater to be discharged;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Wastewater constituents and concentrations, including, but not limited to,
   biochemical oxygen demand, total suspended solids, ammonia, Total Kjeldahl
   Nitrogen, or total nitrogen, total phosphorus and pH;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Time and duration of discharge;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Average and thirty (30) minute wastewater flow rates, including daily, monthly
   and seasonal variations, if any;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes in or proposed
   within the User Jurisdiction, including all materials and types of materials
   which are or could be discharged to the wastewater system;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Each product produced or to be produced by type, amount and chemical
   composition; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any other information WASA may consider to be necessary to evaluate the User
   Jurisdiction’s Significant Industrial User.

   1518.7. Agreements with User Jurisdictions required to implement pretreatment
   programs under applicable federal law shall contain the following provisions:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Agreement to diligently enforce a pretreatment program which conforms to the
   minimum legal requirements contained in the National Pretreatment Regulations
   (40 C.F.R. Part 403) and any other provisions necessary to implement the
   requirements of the Act and this chapter;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Explicit incorporation of the following provisions into the User
   Jurisdiction’s pretreatment program:
   
   
   
   (1)	A definition for &#8220;Significant Industrial User&#8221; and
   “Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User” as set forth in § 1599 of
   this chapter.  User Jurisdictions may elect not to include the provision for a
   Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User;
   
   
   
   (2)	A provision requiring any Industrial User responsible for a significant
   accidental discharge to immediately notify both WASA and the User
   Jurisdiction;
   
   
   
   (3)	A provision requiring a Significant Industrial User to immediately notify
   WASA and the User Jurisdiction of any changes at its facility affecting the
   potential for a slug discharge;
   
   
   
   (4)	A provision adopting discharge standards that match or exceed the
   District&#8217;s discharge standards;
   
   
   
   (5)	A provision enabling the User Jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of
   their regulations and seek injunctive relief and civil and criminal penalties
   for noncompliance; and
   
   
   
   (6)	A grant of authority to the User Jurisdiction to require the installation
   of all monitoring and pretreatment facilities;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Agreement to conduct an industrial waste survey to identify and locate all
   Industrial Users subject to the pretreatment program, including all
   Significant Industrial Users and Non-Significant Categorical Industrial Users,
   if applicable, within the User Jurisdiction;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Agreement to evaluate whether a Significant Industrial User needs a plan or
   other action to control slug discharges within one (1) year of being
   designated a Significant Industrial User. For Industrial Users identified as
   significant prior to November 14, 2005, this evaluation shall have been
   conducted at least once by October 14, 2006;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Agreement to control through wastewater discharge permits the discharges from
   each Significant Industrial User and Non-Significant Categorical Industrial
   User, if applicable, within the User Jurisdiction;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Agreement, if requested to do so, to provide access to, and copies of, all
   permits and permit applications, industrial monitoring reports, baseline
   reports, records or violations and enforcement actions taken and any other
   monitoring or reporting requirements imposed by Federal, state or local
   regulations. These records shall be maintained for at least three (3) years;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Agreement that any grant of a monitoring waiver by the User Jurisdiction shall
   be included as a condition in the Industrial User’s control mechanism.  The
   reasons supporting the waiver and any information submitted by the Industrial
   User in its request for the waiver shall be maintained by the User
   Jurisdiction for three (3) years after the expiration of the waiver;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Agreement to grant WASA the right to enter and inspect any part of the User
   Jurisdiction&#8217;s sewer system and the facilities of Industrial Users
   within the User Jurisdiction at any reasonable time for the purpose of
   inspecting the entire premises, taking independent samples, and examining and
   copying records. The User Jurisdiction shall make all necessary legal and
   administrative arrangements for these inspections;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Agreement to provide WASA with quarterly pretreatment program reports and
   annual pretreatment reports; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Agreement for the User Jurisdiction to enter into a pretreatment agreement
   with Contributing Jurisdictions where Industrial Users located outside the
   boundary of the User Jurisdiction are discharging into the Contributing
   Jurisdiction’s sewer system, which discharges into the User Jurisdiction’s
   sewer system and ultimately to the District’s wastewater system.  Such
   pretreatment agreements shall be substantially equivalent to the District’s
   pretreatment agreement with the User Jurisdiction and shall be fully secured
   prior to a discharge from any Industrial User into the Contributing
   Jurisdiction’s sewer system.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1021, 1079 (February
   10, 2012).
