                                  DC REGULATIONS

HAULED WASTEWATER (§ 21-1510)

It shall be unlawful for any User to dispose of any hauled wastewater,
comprising liquid or solid and liquid wastes, removed from septic tanks, grease
abatement systems, portable toilets, or wastes from any other source, anywhere
in the District of Columbia except at the Septage Receiving Facility located at
the wastewater treatment facility at 5000 Overlook Ave., S.W.







Any User intending to discharge hauled wastewater in the District of Columbia,
shall apply for and obtain a Waste Hauler Discharge Permit.





The application for issuance of a Waste Hauler Discharge Permit shall be
submitted to WASA at least thirty (30) days prior to discharge for a new permit
or the expiration of a current permit and shall include the following
information:





Name, address, and contact information;







Vehicle information for each vehicle used to discharge waste at the WASA Septage
Receiving Facility, including:







Make, model and year of the vehicle;







Tag number;







State of registration;







Serial number;







Tank capacity;







Garage address; and







Insurance coverage;







Estimated number of loads per week;







Services provided (type of waste and service area);







List of commercial and industrial customers (if applicable);







Waste characterization data, if requested by WASA;







Operating permits (if applicable); and







Certification statements (included on the application), signed by an authorized
representative in accordance with § 1508.11.







After evaluation of the information submitted, WASA may:







Deny any application for a Waste Hauler Discharge Permit; or







Issue an invoice for the applicable Waste Hauler Discharge Permit fees as
provided in chapter 1 of this title, and upon payment, shall issue a Waste
Hauler Discharge Permit subject to terms and conditions provided in the Waste
Hauler Discharge Permit.







Upon receiving a Waste Hauler Discharge Permit, the Waste Hauler shall comply
with all permit conditions.  Discharge of wastewater without a permit shall be
prohibited, unless authorized by WASA.







Waste Hauler Discharge Permits shall be effective for a period of one (1) year
and may contain any or all of the following conditions:





Statement of duration;







Statement of non-transferability;







Load restrictions;







Manifest requirements;







Right of refusal;







Hours of operation, and procedures for discharging outside of the normal hours
of operation; and







Additional requirements as WASA may determine.







Waste Hauler Discharge Permits are not transferable, unless WASA specifically
authorizes in writing.







The permittee shall notify WASA immediately if their license plate or
registration has changed on any of their permitted vehicles.







Upon receiving notification from the permittee pursuant to § 1510.8, WASA shall
issue a revised Waste Hauler Discharge Permit.







Wastes that are not compatible with the District’s wastewater treatment
process, including, but not limited to, wastewater or additives containing
petroleum products, solvents, formaldehyde, or 1,4-dichlorobenzene shall not be
discharged at the Septage Receiving Facility.







Wastes from water or wastewater treatment plants or other non-domestic sources
shall not be discharged at the Septage Receiving Facility unless WASA
specifically authorizes in writing.  WASA may require characterization of the
discharge prior to authorization to discharge.







Waste from water or wastewater treatment plants or other non-domestic sources
shall not be mixed with waste from domestic sources.







The waste hauler shall submit a manifest form to WASA prior to entering the Blue
Plains facility which shall contain the following information on each load:







Company name and Waste Hauler Discharge Permit number;







Vehicle make, model, and license number;







For each source, the customer’s name, address and volume of hauled waste;







Type of waste(s) (for example grease trap, and septic tank);







Total volume of the load; and







Driver certification statement.







Disposal into the Septage Receiving Facility shall be in accordance with the
following provisions:







All loads shall comply with WASA discharge standards as provided in § 1501;







WASA shall reserve the right to refuse acceptance of any load;







Dischargers may be required to cease unloading operations at any time;







In the case of composite loads, any part of the load that is restricted or
prohibited shall make the entire load unacceptable for discharge;







Upon request, any Waste Hauler shall provide WASA personnel with access to the
wastewater contained in the vehicle for collecting samples or taking instrument
readings;







All haulers shall clean up all spills resulting from their discharge activity at
the Septage Receiving Facility; and







Additional expenses shall be charged to the hauler if WASA has to clean up any
spills or deposits, unclog the septage discharge lines, or repair damage
occurring as the result of the hauler’s discharge activity.







Except as authorized by WASA, the discharge of truck-hauled wastewater without a
permit or in violation of a permit shall be punishable as provided in § 15 of
the Act and as provided in §§ 1513, 1516, and 1517.







A Waste Hauler Discharge Permit may be suspended, terminated, or denied for good
cause including, but not limited to, the following:







Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to the
treatment system or WASA personnel;







Violation of any terms or conditions of the Waste Hauler Discharge Permit;







Obtaining a Waste Hauler Discharge Permit by misrepresentation or failure to
disclose fully, all relevant facts;







The unauthorized discharge of wastewater from non-domestic sources;







Denying WASA personnel access to a vehicle or its contents for purposes of
collecting a sample and/or obtaining instrument readings;







Failure to obtain or maintain appropriate current hauling licenses or permits
from Federal, State, or local agencies; and







Failure to pay fees.







Volume based disposal fees may be assessed in accordance with chapter 1 of this
title for each load of hauled wastewater received at the Septage Receiving
Facility, based on the volume and type or strength of wastewater discharged.
Additional fees may be assessed for hauled wastewater discharged outside of
normal hours of operation.







WASA shall determine the volume of wastewater and shall base the determination
on either:







The actual volume of sewage discharged as determined by a method acceptable to
WASA; or







The carrying capacity or a percentage of the carrying capacity of the waste
hauler’s vehicle, if the actual volume of sewage discharged cannot be
determined by a method acceptable to WASA.







Users may petition the General Manager to reconsider the issuance, suspension,
termination or denial of a Waste Hauler Discharge Permit or the terms or
conditions of a Waste Hauler Discharge Permit within fifteen (15) calendar days
of the effective date of the Waste Hauler Discharge Permit by submission of a
Permit Appeal form.  The submission of a Permit Appeal for reconsideration shall
not stay compliance with Waste Hauler Discharge Permit conditions.







Failure to submit a timely Permit Appeal for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of administrative appeal unless WASA grants a time extension.







In the Permit Appeal, the User shall indicate the discharge permit provisions
objected to, the reasons for the objection, and the alternative condition, if
any, it seeks to place in the Waste Hauler Discharge Permit.







The General Manager will review and make a final decision on the Permit Appeal. 
The General Manager will send the User the final decision.







If the Permit Appeal is denied by the General Manager or the User is not
satisfied with the General Manager’s final decision, the User may appeal the
Permit Appeal decision as set forth in § 1519 by filing a petition for an
administrative hearing within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date of the
General Manager’s decision.  The petition for an administrative hearing shall
be filed in accordance with the requirements set forth in 21 DCMR § 412.



	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 6194, 6202 (October 10, 1986); as
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2948 (April 28, 2000); as
amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1021, 1062 (February
10, 2012).
