                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (§ 21-1500)

The purpose of this chapter is to provide procedures for complying with the
requirements of the Wastewater System Regulation Amendment Act of 1985 (D.C. Law
6-95; D.C. Official Code §§ 8-105.01, et seq. (2008 Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.)).







These regulations shall apply to all Users that indirectly discharge
non-domestic wastewater to the District’s wastewater system or directly
discharge domestic or non-domestic wastewater into the District of Columbia
Water and Sewer Authority’s Septage Receiving Facility.







These regulations provide for the issuance of wastewater discharge permits;
monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities, reporting;, and
administrative review procedures.







The objectives of these regulations are to:







Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the District of Columbia Water and
Sewer Authority (WASA) sewerage system that will or may interfere with the
operation of the District’s wastewater system;







Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the District’s wastewater system
that will or may pass through the District’s wastewater system, inadequately
treated, into the Potomac River and its tributaries or otherwise be incompatible
with the District’s wastewater system;







Enable WASA to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
permit conditions, and any other Federal, State or District law to which WASA is
subject to;







Ensure that the quality of the biosolids produced is maintained at a level that
allows for beneficial reuse in compliance with applicable statutes and
regulations; and







Protect the general public and WASA’s personnel.







Except as otherwise provided herein, the WASA General Manager shall promulgate,
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of these regulations.  Any
powers granted to or duties imposed upon the General Manager may be delegated to
WASA personnel.



	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 6194 (October 10, 1986); as
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2948 (April 28, 2000); as
amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1021, 1022 (February
10, 2012).
