                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS (§ 21-1502)

If any wastewater which is or may be discharged to the District&#8217;s
wastewater system and which, in WASA&#8217;s judgment has or may have a
potential to upset the treatment plant, a deleterious effect on the wastewater
system, receiving waters, the disposal of WASA’s biosolids, constitute a
nuisance, or otherwise create a hazard to life or the environment, WASA may take
any of the following actions, including but not limited to:



(a)	Reject the wastewater;

(b)	Require the pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
wastewater system;



(c)	Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; or



(d)	Require payment of a high-strength waste fee.







Each Industrial User shall provide the wastewater pretreatment deemed necessary
to comply with the requirements of this chapter. Any pretreatment or control
facilities required to pretreat wastewater shall be installed, operated,
monitored, and maintained at the Industrial User&#8217;s expense.







Increased use of process water or dilution of a discharge shall not constitute
either a partial or complete substitute for adequate or necessary pretreatment
to achieve compliance with any discharge limitation.







Approval of existing or proposed pretreatment or control facilities or equipment
by WASA shall not, in any way, guarantee that these facilities or equipment will
function in the manner described by the owner, designer, constructor or
manufacturer. WASA&#8217;s approval shall not relieve any User of the
responsibility of enlarging or otherwise modifying such pretreatment or control
facilities to accomplish the intended purpose of pretreatment or control.







Where pretreatment or control facilities are required, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective condition by the Industrial User at
his or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by WASA.







Each Industrial User shall provide pretreatment or control facilities to protect
the wastewater system from slug discharges, accidental discharges, prohibited
materials, or other regulated wastes. The pretreatment or control facilities
shall be provided and maintained at the Industrial User&#8217;s expense.







Significant Industrial Users shall be evaluated to determine whether a plan or
other action is needed to control slug discharges within one (1) year of being
designated by WASA as a Significant Industrial User.  Slug control plans shall
address at a minimum the following:







Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch discharges;







Description of stored chemicals;







Procedures to be used for notifying WASA immediately of any slug discharges,
including any discharge that would violate a prohibition under §1501.4 and
procedures for follow-up written notification within five (5) days;







Procedures to be used for notifying WASA immediately of any changes at its
facility affecting potential for a slug discharge; and





If necessary, procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental spills,
including:







Inspection and maintenance of storage areas;







Handling and transfer of materials;







Loading and unloading operations;







Control of plant site run-off;







Worker training;







Building of containment structures or equipment;







Measures for containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents); and







Measures and equipment for emergency response.







Industrial Users shall provide secondary containment measures where substances
are stored, transported, treated, disposed of, or otherwise handled in areas
draining into a District sewer which, because of actual or potential discharge
or leakage from the storage or conveyance system, creates or may create an
explosion hazard in, or in any other way have a detrimental effect upon, the
wastewater system, or otherwise constitute or pose a hazard to human beings,
animals, property, or the receiving waters.







Secondary containment plans are subject to review by WASA, and shall include
reasonable safeguards to eliminate or minimize the potential detrimental effect.







Detailed plans delineating and describing the facilities and operating
procedures required by § 1502.6 and 1502.7 shall be maintained by the
Industrial User and made available for inspection by WASA or authorized
representatives at any reasonable time as provided for in § 1506.







Whenever deemed necessary, WASA may require Industrial Users to restrict their
discharge during peak flow periods, designate specific sewers to discharge
wastewater, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage
wastestreams from industrial wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be
necessary to protect the District’s wastewater system and determine the
Industrial User’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.







WASA may require any User discharging to the District’s wastewater system to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable storage
and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow.  A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.





WASA may issue any Industrial User a compliance schedule for installation of
technology required to comply with this chapter in accordance with D.C. Official
Code § 8-105.07(b)(3) (2008 Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.).







Compliance schedules shall contain increments of progress in the form of
activities to be performed and dates for the commencement and completion of
these activities leading to the construction and operation of the pretreatment
technology or completion of other activities required to bring the Industrial
User into compliance.







Failure to initiate or complete the required activities by the date specified in
the compliance schedule shall be a violation of this chapter and shall be
enforceable in accordance with § 1513.







Industrial Users including, but not limited to, restaurants, cafeterias, hotel
kitchens, church kitchens, school kitchens, hospital cafeterias, bars, or other
facilities that have the potential to discharge oil or grease laden wastewater
shall provide and maintain a grease abatement system for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of oil and grease in accordance with the
District of Columbia Plumbing Code or as WASA requires.







Industrial Users including, but not limited to, gas stations, maintenance
facilities, laundries, car washes, or other facilities that have the potential
to discharge oil, or sand laden wastewater shall provide oil or sand
interceptors for the proper handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts
of oil or sand in accordance with the District of Columbia Plumbing Code or as
WASA requires.







Industrial Users that have the potential of discharging grease, oil, or sand
laden wastewater into the District’s wastewater system shall comply with the
following requirements:







Implement appropriate best management practices for minimizing the discharge of
grease, oil, or sand laden wastewater into the sewer system;







All grease abatement systems and interceptors shall comply with the currently
approved District of Columbia Plumbing Code requirements and shall be easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection;







Grease abatement systems and interceptors shall be maintained and inspected
regularly and repaired as needed by the Industrial User at their expense;







Grease, oil, and settled solids shall be removed from such grease abatement
systems and interceptors at a frequency necessary to ensure proper operation and
to prevent pass-through of these materials into the District’s wastewater
system;





Cleaning frequency shall not exceed thirty (30) days for an indoor grease
abatement system and ninety (90) days for an outdoor grease abatement system,
unless granted a written variance by WASA for those Industrial Users identified
in §1502.16.  A written variance may be issued if the Industrial User can
satisfactorily demonstrate that the accumulation of grease, oils, and solids
does not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the liquid retention capacity of
the grease abatement system during the Industrial User’s proposed cleaning
frequency.  The entire contents of the grease abatement system shall be pumped
out and properly disposed of to allow for thorough cleaning of the grease
abatement system.  All costs for removal of material or cleaning of the grease
abatement system shall be at the Industrial User’s expense; and







Documentation of the most recent cleaning of the grease abatement system or
interceptor shall be retained on site and shall include, at a minimum, the date
cleaned, the company or person performing the cleaning, the volume of material
removed, and the method and location of disposal.  Cleaning records shall be
retained for a period of at least three (3) years.



	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 6194, 6195 (October 10, 1986); as
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2948 (April 28, 2000); as
amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1021, 1034 (February
10, 2012).
