                                  DC REGULATIONS

RIGHT OF ENTRY (§ 21-1506)

For the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing,
WASA or WASA’s authorized representative shall have the right to enter upon or
through any premises to determine compliance with this chapter. This right to
enter and inspect shall be in accordance with section 9 of the Wastewater System
Regulation Amendment Act of 1985 (D.C. Law 6-95; D.C. Official Code § 8-105.08
(2008 Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.)).







Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to a facility to
be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the Industrial User at
the request of WASA and shall not be replaced.  The cost of clearing such
obstructions shall be the responsibility of the Industrial User.







Where an Industrial User has security measures in place which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry, the Industrial User shall make
the necessary arrangements so that upon presentation of suitable identification,
WASA, or WASA’s authorized representative, will be permitted entry without
delay.







Appropriate credentials for making an inspection shall include:







A duly issued photo identification card showing the name of the inspector and
proof of employment with WASA; or







A WASA authorized representative with a photo identification and a notice of
inspection issued by WASA, containing the following information:







Name of the Industrial User;







Address of the place or identification of the facility to be inspected;







Date of the inspection;







Name of the WASA authorized representative; and







Signature of the WASA official.







Entry by WASA or WASA’s authorized representative may be made with or without
notice, as follows:







At any time, in emergency situations, or where there is a potential immediate
threat to human health and safety, the environment or the District’s
wastewater system; or







At any reasonable time in non-emergency situations. The following times shall be
deemed reasonable for the purpose of entry:







Between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays; and







Any hour during which the facility is open for business or operation.







Unreasonable delays in allowing WASA or WASA’s authorized representative
access to the Industrial Users premises shall constitute a violation of the Act
and this chapter.



	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 6194, 6198 (October 10, 1986); as
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2948 (April 28, 2000); as
amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1021, 1048 (February
10, 2012).
