                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 21-1599)

1599.1 	When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed:



Act &#8211; The District of Columbia Wastewater System Regulation Act of 1985
(D.C. Law 6-95; D.C. Official Code §§ 8-105.01, et seq. (2008 Repl. &#038;
2011 Supp)), as amended.



Analytical Testing &#8211; all methods of sample collection, preservation, and
analysis as prescribed in 40 C.F.R. § 136, &#8220;Guidelines Establishing Tests
Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants under the Clean Water Act.&#8221;



Best Management Practices (BMPs) &#8211; schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to
implement the prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b), and local
pretreatment requirements.  BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating
procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks,
sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.



Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) &#8211; oxygen utilized in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter in five (5) days at twenty degrees Centigrade
(20oC), expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l) as determined by the methods of
Analytical Testing.



Biosolids &#8211; wastewater sludge and residue that has been processed through
a wastewater treatment system to meet the pathogen reduction and vector
attraction reduction requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 503.15 for land application as
fertilizer and soil amendment.



Blue Plains &#8211; The District of Columbia&#8217;s Wastewater Treatment Plant
at Blue Plains, a POTW.



Categorical Pretreatment Standards or Categorical Standards or National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards &#8211; any regulation promulgated by the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c)
of the Clean Water Act which specifies quantities or concentrations of
pollutants or pollutant properties which may be discharged to a POTW by existing
or new Industrial Users in specific industrial categories provided in 40 C.F.R.
Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.



Categorical Wastewater – wastewater subject to National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards.



Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) &#8211; the oxygen equivalent of that portion of
the organic matter that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong chemical
oxidant. The values shall be as determined by the methods of Analytical Testing.



Clean Water Act &#8211; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act approved October
18, 1972 (86 Stat. 816; 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251, et seq).



C.F.R. – the Code of Federal Regulations.



Combined Sewer &#8211; a sewer which is intended by the District to serve as
both a storm sewer and sanitary sewer.



Compatible Pollutants &#8211; biochemical oxygen demand, total suspended solids,
pH, and fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified by WASA
if the wastewater treatment plant in fact removes such additional pollutants to
a substantial degree. The term &#8220;substantial degree&#8221; is not subject
to precise definition, but generally contemplates removals in the order of
eighty percent (80%) or greater. Minor incidentals removals in the order of ten
to thirty percent (10% to 30%) are not considered substantial. Examples of the
additional pollutants which may be considered compatible include the following:



(a) 	Chemical oxygen demand;



(b) 	Total organic carbon;



(c) 	Phosphorous and phosphorous compounds; and



(d) 	Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds.



Contributing Jurisdiction – a jurisdiction whose Industrial Users are located
outside the jurisdictional boundary of a User Jurisdiction, but the discharges
from the Industrial Users discharge into the User Jurisdiction sewer system and
ultimately into WASA’s wastewater system.



Cooling Water &#8211; the wastewaters discharged from any system of heat
transfer, such as condensation, air conditioning, cooling or refrigeration to
which the only pollutant added is heat.



Daily Maximum – the arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a pollutant
collected during a calendar day.



Daily Maximum Limit – the maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day.  Where Daily Maximum Limits are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day.  Where Daily Maximum Limits are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.



DCMR – the District of Columbia Municipal Regulations.



Discharge &#8211; any solid, liquid, or gas introduced into the wastewater
system, including indirect discharges.



District &#8211; the District of Columbia, a municipal corporation.



District Pretreatment Standards or Local Limits &#8211; those limits found in 21
DCMR § 1501 and D.C. Official Code § 8-105.06 (2008 Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.)).



Domestic Wastewater – Any wastewater produced by ordinary living uses,
including, but not limited to, liquid waste containing animal or vegetable
matter in suspension or solution, or the water-carried waste from the discharge
of water closets, laundry tubs, washing machines, sinks, dishwashers, or other
sources of water-carried wastes of human origin. This definition includes
wastewater from commercial, industrial or residential sources which is of a
similar quality, constituents and strength, to that produced by these same
ordinary living uses.



EPA &#8211; the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.



Garbage &#8211; solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
or dispensing of food, or from the handling, storage, or sale of produce. For
purposes of this chapter, &#8220;garbage&#8221; is not the same as
&#8220;shredded garbage&#8221;.



Grease Abatement System &#8211; Any grease interceptor, grease trap, grease
recovery device, or any treatment system designed to remove Fats, Oils and
Grease (FOG) from food service establishments, including but not limited to,
cafeterias, hotel kitchens, church kitchens, school kitchens, hospital
cafeterias, bars, or any other commercial food service establishment.



Hazardous Waste &#8211; waste defined as hazardous waste in the District of
Columbia Hazardous Waste Management Act of 1977, effective March 16, 1978 (D.C.
Law 2-64; D.C. Official Code § 8-1302(2) (2008 Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.)), as
amended.



Health Care Facility &#8211; a facility defined as a health care facility in the
Unused Pharmaceutical Safe Disposal Act of 2009, effective March 5, 2010 (D.C.
Law 18-112; D.C. Official Code § 48-851.01 (2009 Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.)), as
amended.



High Strength Wastewater &#8211; wastewater containing concentrations of organic
matter, solids, or nutrients that are higher than domestic strength wastewater
as established by WASA.



Incompatible Pollutant &#8211; any pollutant which is not a &#8220;compatible
pollutant&#8221; as defined in this section.



Indirect Discharge &#8211; the introduction of pollutants into a POTW or the
District’s wastewater system from any non-domestic source regulated under
section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Clean Water Act and the Act.



Industrial User or IU &#8211; a source of Indirect Discharge from a non-domestic
User who discharges, causes, or permits the discharge of wastewater into the
District&#8217;s wastewater system.



Infectious Waste &#8211; any waste defined as infectious waste in the Solid
Waste Facility Permit Act of 1995, effective February 27, 1996 (D.C. Law 11-94;
D.C. Official Code § 8-1051(21) (2008 Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.)), as amended.



Institutional pharmacy – a pharmacy defined as an institutional pharmacy in
the Unused Pharmaceutical Safe Disposal Act of 2009, effective March 5, 2010
(D.C. Law 18-112; D.C. Official Code § 48-851.01 (2009 Repl. &#038; 2011
Supp.)), as amended.

Interference &#8211; a discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, both:



(a)	Inhibits or disrupts the District’s wastewater system, its treatment
processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and



(b)	Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of WASA’s National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit (including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use
or disposal in compliance with the following statutory provisions and
regulations or permits issued thereunder (or more stringent State or local
regulations):



(1) 	Section 405 of the Clean Water Act;



(2) 	Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) including Title II, more commonly referred
to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and including State or
District regulations contained in any State or District sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA;



(3) 	Clean Air Act;



(4) 	Toxic Substances Control Act; and



(5) 	Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.



International Standards Organization or ISO &#8211; An international
non-governmental organization that develops international standards, such as ISO
11143: Dentistry &#8211; Amalgam Separators, available through the ISO website
at http://www.iso.org.



Mayor &#8211; the Mayor of the District of Columbia or any representative or
agency designated by the Mayor to carry out the provisions of the Act and these
regulations.



Medical Waste &#8211; any waste defined as medical waste in section 2(3A) of the
Illegal Dumping Enforcement Act of 1994, effective May 20, 1994 (D.C. Law
10-117; D.C. Official Code § 8-901(3A) (2008 Repl.)), as amended.



National Pretreatment Standards, Pretreatment Standards, or Standards &#8211;
any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act, which applies to
Industrial Users. National Pretreatment Standards, Pretreatment Standards, or
Standards includes prohibitive discharge limits established pursuant to 40
C.F.R. § 403.5, D.C. Official Code § 8-105.06 (2008 Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.),
and this chapter.



Natural Outlet &#8211; any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, river, lake,
or other body of surface water.



New Source -



(a) 	Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there is or
may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the
publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c) of the Clean
Water Act, which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section,  provided that:



(1)	The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at a site
at which no other source is located;



(2)	The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces the
process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an
existing source; or



(3)	The production or wastewater generating processes of the building, facility
or installation are substantially independent of an existing source at the same
site. In determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such
as the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plant,
and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of
activity as the existing source should be considered;



(b)	Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results in a
modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create a new
building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria of paragraphs
(a)(2) and (a)(3) above, but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to existing
process or production equipment; and



(c)	Construction of a new source as defined above has commenced if the owner or
operator has:



(1)	Begun or caused to begin as part of a continuous onsite construction
program:



(A) 	Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or



(B)	Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation, or removal
of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for the
placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment; or



(2)	Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities
or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable
time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified
without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering, and design
studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this paragraph.



Non-Contact Cooling Water – water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, product, byproduct, or waste.



Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User – an Industrial User subject to
Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R.
Chapter I, Subchapter N that WASA determines is a Non-Significant Categorical
Industrial User rather than a Significant Categorical Industrial User on a
finding that the Industrial User does not discharge more than one-hundred
gallons per day (100 gal./day) of total categorical wastewater (excluding
sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless
specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the following conditions
are met:



(a)	The Industrial User, prior to WASA’s finding has consistently complied
with all applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standards and requirements;



(b)	The Industrial User annually submits the certification statement required in
§ 1508.9 together with any additional information necessary to support the
certification statement; and



(c)	The Industrial User never discharges any untreated concentrated wastewater.



Non-Significant Non-Categorical Industrial User – an Industrial User that is
not subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards, discharges less than
twenty-five gallons per day (25,000 gal./day) of process wastewater, and
specifically designated by WASA due to type of business, characteristics of the
discharge, or presence of pretreatment facilities.



Non-wastewater flows – discharges that do not result from an industrial
process, which include storm waters (including snow melt), surface waters,
ground waters, subsurface drainage (including foundation, footing, and under
drainage), cooling waters, roof drainage, irrigation waters, diverted stream
flows, and spring waters.



North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) – the classification and
classification numbers of Users based on the 2007 North American Industry
Classification Manual by the Executive Office of the President, Office of
Management and Budget, as it may be revised, updated, replaced, or amended.



NPDES Permit – means the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
permit issued by the EPA Region III to WASA for the operation of the Blue Plains
Wastewater Treatment Facility in effect on September 30, 2010, and as it may be
amended or modified in the future, and any successor permits issued by the EPA
Region III to either the District or to WASA.



Nuisance &#8211; any condition, state or combination of circumstances which
injures, or threatens or endangers health, safety, or welfare.



Objectionable Color &#8211; a color inappropriate for the normal characteristics
of the receiving water.



Pass Through &#8211; any discharge which exits the District’s Wastewater
system into waters of the United States in quantities or concentrations which,
alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources,
causes or may cause, or contributes to, a violation of any requirement of the
NPDES permit including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.



Person &#8211; any natural person, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns.



pH &#8211; the logarithm to the base ten (10) of the reciprocal of the
concentration of hydrogen ion in grams per liter (g/l) of solution as determined
by the methods of Analytical Testing.



Pharmaceutical Product &#8211; a drug or biologic regulated by the federal Food
and Drug Administration.



Pharmaceutical Waste – a pharmaceutical product, which is no longer suitable
for its intended purpose or is otherwise being discarded.



Phosphorus or Total Phosphorus (TP) – phosphorus content in wastewater as
determined by the methods of Analytical Testing.



Pollutant &#8211; any substance which induces or may induce an alteration of the
chemical, physical, biological, or radiological integrity of water, which has or
may have a detrimental effect on a subsequent use of that water, or which
interferes or may interfere with the District’s wastewater system.



Pretreatment- the reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants to the District’s wastewater system.  This reduction or alteration
may be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes, process changes,
or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d) and section
7(h) of the Act. Appropriate pretreatment technology includes control equipment,
such as equalization tanks or facilities, for protection against surges or slug
loadings that might interfere with or otherwise be incompatible with the
District’s wastewater system. However, if wastewater from a regulated process
is mixed in an equalization facility with unregulated wastewater or with
wastewater from another regulated process, the effluent from the equalization
facility must meet an adjusted pretreatment limit calculated in accordance with
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).



Pretreatment Requirements &#8211; any District pretreatment standard or federal,
state, or local substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment,
other than a National Pretreatment Standard, imposed on an Industrial User.



Process Wastewater – wastewater discharged from an industrial process or
contaminated non-wastewater flows that contain pollutant levels that exceed the
District’s Pretreatment Standards (prior to treatment), excluding sanitary,
noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater.

Publicly Owned Treatment Works or POTW &#8211; a treatment works as defined by
section 212 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by a
State or municipality, such as the District of Columbia.  This definition
includes any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also
includes sewers, pipes, and other conveyance, which convey wastewater to a
treatment plant.



Residue &#8211; the accumulated solids, grease, liquids, and scum separated from
wastewater during the wastewater treatment process. Also referred to as
&#8220;sludge and residue&#8221;.



Responsible Corporate Officer &#8211; shall be:







A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the corporation in
charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs
similar policy- or decision-making functions for the corporation; or







The manager of one (1) or more manufacturing, production, or operating
facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make management decisions
which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having the
explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations,
and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure long-term
environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure
that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete
and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where authority
to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance
with corporate procedures.



Sanitary Sewer Service Charge &#8211; the charge levied against Users to recover
the costs of rendering wastewater treatment system services.



Septic Tank &#8211; a watertight receptacle which receives the discharge from a
drainage system or a part of the drainage system, and is designed and
constructed to separate solids from the liquid, decompose organic matter through
a period of detention, and allow the liquids to discharge into the soil outside
of the tank.



Sewer &#8211; any pipe or conduit for conveying wastewater or drainage water.



Shredded Garbage &#8211; garbage that has been shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one inch (1 in.) in
dimension. For purposes of this chapter, &#8220;shredded garbage&#8221; is not
the same as &#8220;garbage&#8221;.



Significant Accidental Discharge &#8211; any unintentional or uncontrolled
release of pollutant(s) which results in a violation of a permit issued pursuant
to this chapter or results in a violation of the NPDES permit issued to operate
Blue Plains.



Significant Categorical Industrial User – an Industrial User that is subject
to Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R.
chapter I, subchapter N and does not meet the requirements as a Non-Significant
Categorical Industrial User.



Significant Industrial User -



(a)	Except as provided in paragraph (b) below, any Industrial User that either:



(1) 	Is an Industrial User subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards under
40 C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. chapter I, subchapter N; and



(2) 	Any other Industrial User that:



(A) 	Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand gallons per day (25,000
gal./day) or more of process wastewater to the District’s wastewater system or
other POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater);



(B) 	Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent (5%) or more
of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of Blue Plains; or



(C)	Is designated as a Significant Industrial User by WASA on the basis that the
Industrial User has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the operation
of Blue Plains or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, for
harming the environment or for causing a threat to wastewater utility personnel.



(b)	Upon a finding that an Industrial User meeting the criteria in (a)(2)(A)-(C)
has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the operation of Blue Plains
or for violating any pretreatment standards or requirements, WASA may at any
time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an
Industrial User, and in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6), determine that
such Industrial User is not a Significant Industrial User.



Significant Noncompliance &#8211; for the purposes of this chapter, a
Significant Industrial User is in significant noncompliance with the
pretreatment standards and requirements if it violates a term of a discharge
permit and it’s violation meets one (1) or more of the criteria listed in §
1515, or an Industrial User whose violation meets one (1) or more of the
criteria listed in § 1515.3(c), (d), or (h) of this chapter.



Significantly Changed Operation – WASA shall determine what constitutes a
“&#8221;significantly changed operation&#8221; on a case-by-case basis by
reference to such factors as the increase in the level of pollutant(s)
discharged, the potential for the discharge of additional pollutants or the
potential for accidental or uncontrolled discharges as a result of process
modifications, production increases, equipment modifications and the like.



Slug Discharge or Slug Load &#8211; any discharge of a non-routine, episodic
nature, including but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary
batch discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
through, or in any other way violate WASA’s regulations, local limits, or
permit conditions such that it is capable of violating the specific prohibited
discharge limits and local pretreatment requirements in § 1501 of this chapter.



Standard Industrial Classification &#8211; the classification and classification
numbers of Users based on the 1987 Standard Industrial Classification Manual
(SIC) by the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget,
as it may be revised, updated, replaced or amended.



Termination of Service &#8211; includes closing off or removing branch sewer(s),
disconnecting water service(s) and removal of water service lines.



Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen (TKN) – the sum of the content of organic nitrogen,
ammonia and ammonium in the wastewater, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l)
as determined by the methods of Analytical Testing.



Total Suspended Solids (TSS) &#8211; solids that either float on the surface of,
or may be suspended in, water, sewage, or other liquids, and which may be
removable by laboratory filtering, with concentrations expressed in milligrams
per liter (mg/l). The value shall be as determined by the methods of Analytical
Testing.



Toxic Pollutant &#8211; any pollutant which is identified as toxic by the EPA or
which is designated as toxic by WASA.



Uncontaminated Non-Wastewater Flows – non-wastewater flows that contain
pollutants at levels that do not exceed the District’s pretreatment standards.



User &#8211; any person who discharges, causes, or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the District&#8217;s wastewater system.



User Jurisdictions – the jurisdiction that directly or indirectly connects to
or discharges into, the District’s wastewater system, including Montgomery
County and Prince George&#8217;s County, Maryland, as represented by the
Washington Suburban Sanitary Commission; Fairfax County, Virginia; Loudoun
County, Virginia; and Vienna, Virginia.



WASA &#8211; the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority.



Waste &#8211; sewage and any and all other waste substances of human or animal
origin, or associated with human habitation, or resulting from any production,
storage, manufacturing or processing operation of whatever nature, whether
liquid, solid, gaseous or radioactive. This definition includes such wastes
placed within containers of whatever nature prior to, and for purposes of,
disposal.



Wastewater &#8211; means the liquid and water-carried wastes from dwellings,
commercial buildings, industrial facilities, institutions, and swimming pools.



Wastewater System &#8211; means the devices, facilities, structures, equipment,
or works owned, operated, maintained, or used by the District or WASA for the
purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of
wastewater or to recycle or reuse water, including intercepting sewers, outfall
sewers, wastewater collection systems, treatment, pumping, power, and other
equipment and their appurtenances, extensions, improvements, remodeling of
improvements, additions, and alterations to the additions, elements essential to
provide a reliable recycled water supply such as standby treatment units and
clear well facilities, and any works, including land, that are or may be an
integral part of the treatment process or that are or may be used for disposal
of sludge and residue resulting from such treatment, and sewers designated as
storm sewers shall be considered a part of the wastewater system for purposes of
this subchapter.



	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 6194, 6202 (October 10, 1986); as
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2948 (April 28, 2000); as
amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1021, 1083 (February
10, 2012).
