                                  DC REGULATIONS

WASTEWATER MONITORING (§ 21-1507)

WASA may require any Industrial User to construct monitoring facilities to allow
inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the discharges from the building
sewer or internal drainage systems, and may also require sampling or metering
equipment to be provided, installed and operated, at the expense of the
Industrial Users.







The monitoring facility shall be situated on the Industrial User&#8217;s
premises and located so that it will not be obstructed by the landscape or by
parked vehicles. There shall be ample room in or near such monitoring facilities
to allow accurate flow measurement, sampling and compositing of samples for
analysis.







The monitoring facilities, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be approved
by WASA and maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at
the expense of the Industrial User.







Sampling and analysis shall be done in accordance with the techniques prescribed
in 40 C.F.R. Part 136 and amendments thereto and documented in accordance with
the requirements in § 1512.







Where 40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for
the pollutant in question, or where the EPA Administrator determines that the 40
C.F.R. Part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be performed using validated
analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures,
including procedures suggested by WASA, and approved by the EPA Region III
Administrator.







Industrial Users shall collect and analyze all samples as follows:







Collect grab samples for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide,
and volatile organic compounds;







Collect twenty-four (24) hour composite samples for all other pollutants,
through flow-proportional composite sampling techniques, unless WASA authorizes
time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling;







Where WASA authorizes time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling, the
samples shall be representative of the discharge and the decision to allow the
alternative sampling shall be documented in the Industrial User file for that
facility or facilities; and







Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. Part
136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples collected during a
twenty-four (24) hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as follows:







For cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be composited in the
laboratory or in the field;







For volatile organic compounds and oil and grease the samples may be composited
in the laboratory; and







Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures
as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by WASA, as
appropriate.







For sampling required in support of the Baseline Monitoring Report in § 1508.5
and ninety (90) day Compliance Report in § 1508.7, a minimum of four (4) grab
samples shall be collected for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease,
sulfide, and volatile organic compounds for facilities for which historical
sampling data do not exist.  For facilities for which historical sampling data
are available, WASA may authorize a lower number of required grab samples.







For sampling required in support of the Periodic Compliance Report in § 1508.3,
WASA shall specify the number of grab samples necessary to assess and ensure
compliance by Industrial Users with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements.







For all Categorical Industrial Users, samples shall be collected immediately
downstream from pretreatment facilities or from the regulated process if no
pretreatment exists.  For all Industrial Users, sampling location(s) will be
specified in the permit and shall be representative of the normal discharges
occurring during the reporting period.







Industrial Users shall maintain records of all information resulting from any
monitoring activities required by this chapter, including documentation
associated with Best Management Practices. The records shall include for all
samples:







Date, time, and place of sampling, method of sampling, preservation used, and
the names of the person or persons taking the samples;







Date, time, and place where sample analyses were performed;







Name of the person who performed the analyses;







Analytical techniques or methods used; and







Results of such analyses.







Waivers to Sampling Requirements. WASA may authorize Industrial Users subject to
Categorical Pretreatment Standards to forego sampling of a pollutant if the
Industrial User has submitted a request for a waiver and has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in their discharge or is present only at
background levels (for example, due to the levels in their water intake) and
without any increase in the pollutant due to the activities of the Industrial
User.  All waiver requests are subject to the following conditions:







A waiver may be granted if the pollutant is determined to be present solely due
to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility provided that the sanitary
wastewater is not regulated by an applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standard
and otherwise includes no process wastewater;





The waiver shall be included in the Industrial User’s permit and is valid only
during the period of the permit, which in no case shall exceed five (5) years.
The Industrial User shall submit a new waiver request for each permit issued;





To justify the waiver request, the Industrial User shall sample their waste
stream on at least two (2) separate occasions from a location that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes prior to any treatment at
the facility;





All sampling shall follow the sampling and analysis requirements listed in this
section;





Non-detect sample results may only be used as a determination that a pollutant
is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 C.F.R. Part 136 with the
lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used for the analysis;





The waiver request shall include the certification statement in § 1508.10 and
shall be signed in accordance with § 1508.11;





Industrial Users who are granted a waiver shall certify on each Periodic
Compliance Report that there has been no increase in the pollutant in its
discharge using the following language:



Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 C.F.R. § __________ (specify
applicable National Pretreatment Standards), I certify that, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of _________ (list
the pollutant) in the wastewater due to the activities at the facility since
filing of the last periodic report as required under 21 DCMR § 1508;





In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is expected to be
present based on changes to the Industrial User’s operations, the Industrial
User shall immediately notify WASA and comply with monitoring and reporting
requirements listed in § 1508.3 or other more frequent monitoring imposed by
WASA; and





The granting of a waiver does not supersede certification or other requirements
established in Categorical Pretreatment Standards.





WASA may conduct sampling and analysis in lieu of or in addition to Industrial
User sampling.  Fees for sampling and laboratory analyses may be charged to the
Industrial User.



	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 6194, 6200 (October 10, 1986); as
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2948 (April 28, 2000); as
amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1021, 1049 (February
10, 2012).
