                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND FIRST AID (ยง 29-369)

369.1. Each Child Development Facility shall have, at all times, on the
   premises and readily available to administer aid, at least two (2) staff
   members who possess current certification in First Aid and CPR for children,
   and the prevention, recognition and management of communicable diseases, or
   who have satisfactorily completed courses, approved by the Director, in all of
   the above disciplines; except that in a Child Development Home wherein there
   are two (2) or fewer Caregivers, each Caregiver and his or her substitute
   shall possess the above-mentioned qualifications.

   369.2. Each Facility shall obtain and shall maintain, on the Facility
   premises, a sufficient quantity of first aid supplies to meet the
   Facility&#8217;s reasonably expected needs, based on the size of the Facility,
   the ages and developmental abilities of the enrolled children, and the
   Facility&#8217;s program of activities. The Facility shall maintain these
   supplies in a designated location that is readily available to staff and
   inaccessible to the children.

   369.3. Each Facility shall provide the following items among its first-aid
   supplies:
   
   
   
   (a)	One (1) roll of one-half inch (1/2&#8243;) non-allergenic adhesive tape;
   
   
   
   (b)	One (1) roll of two-inch (2&#8243;) gauze roller bandage;
   
   
   
   (c)	Ten (10) individually wrapped sterile gauze squares in assorted sizes;
   
   
   
   (d)	Twenty-five (25) adhesive (e.g., band-aid) compresses in assorted sizes;
   
   
   
   (e)	Three (3) clean cotton towels or sheeting pieces, approximately
   twenty-four by thirty-six inches (24&#8243; x 36&#8243;) each;
   
   
   
   (f)	One (1) pair of scissors;
   
   
   
   (g)	Safety pins in assorted sizes;
   
   
   
   (h)	One (1) flashlight;
   
   
   
   (i)	One (1) thermometer;
   
   
   
   (j)	One (1) measuring tablespoon or dosing spoon;
   
   
   
   (k)	One (1) pair of tweezers;
   
   
   
   (l)	One-third cup (1/3 c.) of powdered milk for dental first aid (for mixing
   to make a liquid solution);
   
   
   
   (m)	A current First Aid text published by the American Academy of Pediatrics
   or the American Red Cross, or an equivalent community first aid guide;
   
   
   
   (n)	The telephone number(s) of the local Poison Control Center;
   
   
   
   (o)	Rubbing alcohol and alcohol swabs;
   
   
   
   (p)	Cotton balls;
   
   
   
   (q)	One (1) ice pack or gel pack;
   
   
   
   (r)	Liquid sanitizer;
   
   
   
   (s)	Disposable, nonabsorbent gloves;
   
   
   
   (t)	All items needed for disposal of blood-borne pathogens;
   
   
   
   (u)	Written Facility protocol for standard precautions and treatment of
   injuries; and
   
   
   
   (v)	One-way valves for infants (if served), young children and adults.

   369.4. The Facility shall inspect and take inventory of its first-aid supplies
   at least weekly, and shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Remove and replace sterile supplies if the package has been opened or
   damaged, or if the expiration date on the package has been reached; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Replace all supplies as they are used up or if they become damaged.

   369.5. Each Facility shall maintain at least one portable and complete
   first-aid kit, and shall ensure that such a kit is taken along by Facility
   staff on each outing, and when children under the care and supervision of the
   Facility are being transported.

   369.6. The Facility shall ensure that at least one person currently certified
   in First Aid and CPR for children is present whenever one or more children are
   taken on an outing or otherwise transported away from the Facility.

   369.7. Each Facility shall conduct practice evacuation drills, in accordance
   with guidelines and/or regulations adopted by the Department of Fire and
   Emergency Medical Services. The drills shall include all groups of children
   and all Facility staff, and shall be conducted at least every two (2) months,
   at varying times during the program day. The Facility shall document, on a
   form approved by the Director, the date, time and duration of each such
   evacuation drill, the number of children and staff participating, and the
   weather conditions.

   369.8. Each Facility shall develop and implement specific procedures for the
   safe and prompt evacuation of infants, toddlers and non-ambulatory children.

   369.9. Each Facility shall develop written emergency contingency plans and
   procedures to be followed in case of fire, natural or man-made disaster, loss
   of power, heat or water service, unsafe indoor temperatures, and any other
   dangerous environmental condition. These shall include procedures for
   evacuation as well as for sheltering in place, as deemed appropriate or as
   directed by authorized government officials.

   369.10. Each Facility shall provide, in each Facility building, at least one
   working, non-pay, stationary telephone accessible to staff.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
