                                  DC REGULATIONS

INDOOR SPACE AND PROGRAMMING REQUIREMENTS FOR OUT-OF-SCHOOL-TIME PROGRAMS (ยง
29-350)

350.1. Each Child Development Center that provides out-of-school-time care
   shall comply with the program space requirements for Centers contained in
   section 340 of this Chapter, with the exception of subsection 340.2.

   350.2. The Facility shall ensure that adequate room is provided for all
   program activities, and shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Arrange the space to permit the easy accommodation of the entire range of
   activities offered by the program;
   
   
   
   (b)	Arrange the space so that various activities can occur simultaneously
   without disruption of one by another; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Ensure that there is adequate and convenient storage space for equipment,
   materials, and the personal possessions of enrolled children and Facility
   staff.

   350.3. Each Facility shall provide the enrolled children with an activity
   program which:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is appropriate to the ages, developmental levels, abilities, and interests
   of the children enrolled;
   
   
   
   (b)	Provides a balance among self-initiated, group-initiated, and
   staff-initiated activities;
   
   
   
   (c)	Provides opportunities for learning, self-expression, and participation in
   a variety of stimulating activities;
   
   
   
   (d)	Provides opportunities for civic engagement and community service; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Fosters self-reliance, social responsibility, growth and development.

   350.4. Each Facility shall develop a written activity plan for each group of
   children that implements the elements of the activity program. The plan shall
   include a daily schedule of activities and routines which offers reasonable
   regularity, and shall include snack and meal periods as applicable, quiet and
   active activities, and opportunities for learning and self-expression.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
