                                  DC REGULATIONS

CENTER DIRECTOR QUALIFICATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES FOR OUT-OF-SCHOOL PROGRAMS
(ยง 29-345)

345.1. Each Child Development Center that provides out-of-school-time care,
   either alone or in conjunction with infant, toddler, and/or preschool care,
   shall have a Center Director.

   345.2. The Center Director for a Center that provides both out-of-school-time
   care and care for infants, toddlers, and/or preschoolers shall meet the
   qualification requirements for a Center Director in accordance with section
   332 of this Chapter.

   345.3. The Center Director in a Child Development Center that provides
   out-of-school-time care only shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of age
   and shall meet one of the following qualification requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	A bachelor&#8217;s degree or higher from an accredited college or
   university in education or child and youth development;
   
   
   
   (b)	A bachelor&#8217;s degree or higher from an accredited college or
   university, plus at least one (1) year supervised experience working with
   children of legal school age and under the age of fifteen (15) years, in an
   accredited school or camp, a licensed Child Development Center, or the
   equivalent;
   
   
   
   (c)	An associate&#8217;s degree from an accredited college or university in
   education or child and youth development, plus at least one (1) year
   supervised experience working with children of legal school age and under the
   age of fifteen (15) years, in an accredited school or camp, a licensed Child
   Development Center, or the equivalent;
   
   
   
   (d)	At least forty-eight (48) credit hours from an accredited college or
   university, at least fifteen (15) credit hours from an accredited college or
   university in education or child and youth development, plus at least eighteen
   (18) months supervised experience working with children of legal school age
   and under the age of fifteen (15) years, in an accredited school or camp, a
   licensed Child Development Center, or the equivalent;
   
   
   
   (e)	A District of Columbia Director Credential, or the equivalent Director
   Credential awarded by another jurisdiction, plus at least two (2) years
   supervised experience working with children of legal school age and under the
   age of fifteen (15) years, in an accredited school or camp, a licensed Child
   Development Center, or the equivalent; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Employment as a qualified Center Director in a licensed Child Development
   Center providing out-of-school-time care in the District of Columbia on the
   effective date of these rules, provided that the Center Director achieves
   compliance with (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) within no more than five (5) years
   following said date.

   345.4. In order to qualify for the purpose of this section, a period of
   supervised work experience must include an average of no less than twenty (20)
   hours per week. One (1) year experience is equal to one thousand (1,000)
   hours. Multiple qualifying periods may be aggregated in order to achieve the
   required total.

   345.5. The duties and responsibilities of the Center Director in a Center that
   provides out-of school-time care shall include those contained in section 333
   of this Chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793(April 27, 2007).
