                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL SAFETY AND MAINTENANCE (ยง 29-363)

363.1. All playthings, equipment, materials, and furnishings provided by a
   Child Development Facility for use by children shall meet the standards of the
   Consumer Product Safety Commission and the American Society for Testing and
   Materials, and shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be sturdy enough that they will not splinter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Not have sharp points or rough edges;
   
   
   
   (c)	Have lead-free, non-toxic paint or finishes;
   
   
   
   (d)	Be easily washable;
   
   
   
   (e)	Be maintained in good repair; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Comply with federal standards regarding small toys and objects for use by
   children.

   363.2. In addition to the requirements contained within subsection 363.1,
   above, all playthings, equipment, materials, and furnishings provided by a
   Facility for use by children under the age of three (3) years shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be large enough that they cannot be swallowed;
   
   
   
   (b)	Not have small parts that may loosen and fall off, such as buttons on
   stuffed animals; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Comply with federal standards regarding small toys and objects for use by
   young children.

   363.3. All play equipment shall be constructed and installed to ensure its
   safe use by all enrolled children (e.g., height shall not be excessive for
   infants and toddlers; the equipment shall not be a potential source of
   entrapment). There shall be no pinch, crush, or shear points on or underneath
   such equipment that may be accessible by children.

   363.4. The Facility shall remove, repair, or discard all furniture, equipment,
   and materials that are not usable due to breakage or to hazardous conditions.

   363.5. Projectile toys shall be prohibited.

   363.6. Tricycles and other riding toys provided by a Facility shall be
   steerable, appropriate for the ages and sizes of the children enrolled, and
   shall not contain spokes.

   363.7. The Facility shall maintain tricycles and other riding toys in good
   condition, free of sharp edges or protrusions that may injure children. When
   not in use, such toys shall be stored in a place where they will not present
   physical obstacles to the children and staff.

   363.8. The Facility shall use only non-toxic arts and crafts materials.

   363.9. Electrical outlets which are not in use and are within the reach of
   children shall be fitted with appropriate child-proof protective receptacle
   closures that meet the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., standard for Safety of
   Receptacle Closures (UL 2255).

   363.10. The Facility shall not use space heaters unless it has received
   explicit approval in writing from an official of the Department of Consumer
   and Regulatory Affairs and/or the Department of Fire and Emergency Medical
   Services.

   363.11. The Facility shall ensure that no firearms or other weapons are on the
   Facility premises, with the exception of those in the possession and control
   of armed security guards authorized to protect the Facility premises.

   363.12. The Facility shall maintain adequate storage space for play and
   teaching equipment, supplies, records, and children&#8217;s possessions and
   clothing.

   363.13. The Facility shall ensure that all toys and other objects or surfaces
   that are likely to be mouthed by children are sanitized daily with a bacterial
   disinfectant solution.

   363.14. All cleaning and sanitizing supplies, toxic substances, paint,
   poisons, aerosol containers, and other items bearing warning labels shall be
   safely stored by the Facility and shall be kept inaccessible to the children
   at all times.

   363.15. The Facility shall ensure that all appliances, sharp utensils, and
   other dangerous devices are kept inaccessible to the children at all times. To
   the extent that any firearm or other weapon may be lawfully permitted on the
   Facility premises, the Facility shall ensure that all such weapons are kept
   inaccessible to the children at all times.

   363.16. The Facility shall keep protective coverings on all electrical fans,
   and shall ensure that fans are placed so that they will not easily topple or
   tip over. The Facility shall ensure that fans are kept out of reach of the
   children when in use.

   363.17. The use of infant walkers, crib gyms, stacked cribs and playpens shall
   be prohibited.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 74-34 published at 21 DCR 1333 (December 27, 1974); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 3793 (April 27, 2007).
