                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXCLUDING AND READMITTING CHILDREN WHO ARE ILL (ยง 29-326)

326.1. A child who exhibits one or more symptoms of illness identified in
   subsection 326.6 shall not attend the Facility.

   326.2. When the Facility staff observes one or more symptoms of illness
   identified in subsection 326.6, the child&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s)
   shall be notified immediately. The Facility shall require that the parent(s)
   or guardian(s) remove the child from the Facility.

   326.3. The Facility shall isolate a child who becomes ill or is suspected of
   being ill. The child shall remain within sight and hearing of a staff member.

   326.4. Facility staff shall carefully observe a child in isolation for the
   presence of, or change in, any symptoms identified in subsection 326.6.

   326.5. Facility staff shall ensure that a child who is ill or suspected of
   being ill does not share any personal hygiene or grooming items.

   326.6. Symptoms of illness requiring exclusion from the Facility include, but
   are not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Diarrhea, i.e., runny, watery or bloody stools;
   
   
   
   (b)	Vomiting two (2) or more times in a twenty-four (24) hour period;
   
   
   
   (c)	Body rash with fever;
   
   
   
   (d)	Sore throat with fever or swollen glands;
   
   
   
   (e)	Eye drainage with thick mucus or pus draining from the eye;
   
   
   
   (f)	Pink eye, i.e., colored drainage, eye pain and/or redness of the eye;
   
   
   
   (g)	Yellowish skin or eyes;
   
   
   
   (h)	Fever accompanied by rash, vomiting, diarrhea, earache, irritability or
   confusion;
   
   
   
   (i)	Continuous irritable crying that requires more attention than the Facility
   can provide without compromising the health and safety of other children; or
   
   
   
   (j)	Any other symptom indicative of a reportable communicable disease, as such
   is defined in Chapter 2 of Title 22 of the District of Columbia Municipal
   Regulations or in any superseding document.

   326.7. The Facility shall observe each child for the presence of symptoms that
   may indicate a medical problem, which problem may require exclusion from the
   Facility, isolation from other children, and/or consultation with the
   child&#8217;s parent(s), guardian(s) or licensed health care practitioner(s).
   The following are examples of conditions that may indicate the existence of a
   medical problem:
   
   
   
   (a)	Fever;
   
   
   
   (b)	Lethargy or inability to walk;
   
   
   
   (c)	Respiratory problems, including: increased respiratory rate; retractions
   in the chest; excessive nasal flaring; audible persistent wheezing; persistent
   coughing, either productive or nonproductive; severe coughing causing redness
   or blueness in the face; or difficulty in breathing;
   
   
   
   (d)	Abdominal and urinary system problems including: intestinal parasites,
   dark urine, white spots in the stool, increased urgency or frequency of
   urination, or no urination for an entire day;
   
   
   
   (e)	Cardiac problems, including: choking, change in color of the skin, chest
   pain, or persistent sweating;
   
   
   
   (f)	Ear problems, including discharge from the ear and/or ear pain;
   
   
   
   (g)	Throat and mouth problems, including: sores on the lips or in the mouth,
   white patches in the mouth, throat pain, or a dental problem that needs
   immediate attention; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Injuries, including: persistent bleeding, oozing wounds, apparent
   fracture, complaint of persistent bone pain or stiffness, or difficulty with
   the movement of any extremity.

   326.8. A child who exhibits one or more symptoms of illness identified in
   subsection 326.6, and who has been treated for said symptom(s) by a licensed
   health care practitioner, may be readmitted to the Facility only with written
   permission, and written instructions for continuing care if needed, from that
   licensed health care practitioner.

   326.9. If a child exhibits mild symptoms of illness and/or discomfort, the
   Center Director or his/her designee, or the Caregiver, in consultation with
   the child&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s), shall decide whether the child
   should be immediately discharged or discharged at the end of the day.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 74-34 published at 21 DCR 1333 (December 27, 1974); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 3793 (April 27, 2007).
