                                  DC REGULATIONS

SWIMMING AND WATER SAFETY (ยง 29-368)

368.1. Before an enrolled child may be permitted to swim or otherwise
   participate in any activity taking place in water two (2) or more feet in
   depth, the Child Development Facility shall obtain written permission from the
   child&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s). The written permission shall be signed
   and dated, and shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The child&#8217;s name;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement indicating whether the child is a swimmer or a non-swimmer;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement indicating that the parent(s) or guardian(s) grants permission
   for the child to participate in water activities.

   368.2. If a Facility premises contains a swimming pool or other body of water
   two (2) or more feet in depth, the Facility shall enclose the pool or body of
   water behind a secure fence of at least four (4) feet in height, and shall
   ensure that the area containing the pool or body of water is inaccessible to
   children at all times unless qualified adults are present and supervising the
   children.

   368.3. If a Facility chooses to utilize one or more wading pools, the Facility
   shall ensure that such pools are filtered, emptied, and drained daily, and
   that such pools are stored in a location that is inaccessible to the enrolled
   children.

   368.4. If a Facility chooses to engage in a field trip to a swimming site,
   such as a public or private swimming pool, lake, or river, Facility staff
   shall accompany and supervise the children at all times, even when a lifeguard
   is present.

   368.5. The Facility shall ensure that any swimming site utilized by the
   Facility that is at a location other than within the Facility premises is
   approved and supervised by the appropriate local authorities.

   368.6. At least one adult certified in Emergency Water Safety and First Aid
   and CPR for children shall be in attendance at all times when children are
   swimming.

   368.7. The Facility shall ensure that all activities of children taking place
   in water two (2) or more feet in depth are supervised by at least one adult
   currently certified as a lifeguard or water safety instructor by the American
   Red Cross or by an equivalent water safety instruction and testing program.

   368.8. In addition to the requirements contained in this section, the Facility
   shall comply with the adult/child ratios and requirements for supervision of
   children contained in section 343 of this Chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
