                                  DC REGULATIONS

FOOD AND NUTRITION REQUIREMENTS (ยง 29-372)

372.1. Each Child Development Facility shall ensure that its planned menus,
   and the foods that are actually served by the Facility, are: varied, suitable
   to the ages and developmental levels of the children, and consistent with the
   meal pattern requirements specified by the United States Department of
   Agriculture&#8217;s Child and Adult Care Food Program.

   372.2. Each Child Development Center shall have at least one staff member
   present at all times when meals are being prepared or served who is certified
   as a Food Protection Manager in accordance with the District of Columbia Food
   Code, Title 25 of the District of Columbia Municipal Regulations. In order to
   qualify under this section, the staff member must have a valid and current
   certification, including photographic identification.

   372.3. Each Child Development Facility shall ensure that food is protected and
   stored as required by the District of Columbia Food Code, Title 25 of the
   District of Columbia Municipal Regulations.

   372.4. Each Facility shall request, and shall obtain if applicable, all
   relevant information regarding dietary restrictions and food allergies for
   each enrolled child, upon the child&#8217;s admission to the Facility, and the
   Facility shall record this information in the child&#8217;s file.

   372.5. At least annually, the Facility shall request, and shall obtain if
   applicable, updated information regarding each enrolled child&#8217;s dietary
   restrictions and food allergies.

   372.6. The Facility shall ensure that all staff responsible for food
   preparation and distribution are informed, in writing, of any dietary
   restrictions, food allergies, or other special dietary requirements that
   concern any children enrolled at the Facility.

   372.7. If a Facility serves food provided by the parent(s) or guardian(s) of
   the enrolled children, the Facility shall establish and implement written
   policies and procedures to be followed if the food provided by the parent(s)
   or guardian(s) does not meet the requirements specified in this section.

   372.8. Each Facility shall maintain a one (1) day supply of perishables and a
   three (3) day supply of staples at all times.

   372.9. The Facility shall ensure that powdered milk or reconstituted
   evaporated milk is not served as a substitute for fluid milk for drinking.
   Powdered milk or reconstituted evaporated milk may be used for cooking.

   372.10. The Facility shall ensure that staff responsibilities concerning food
   preparation and service do not reduce the adult/child ratios for staff
   actively supervising children below the levels specified in this Chapter or
   interfere with the implementation of the Facility&#8217;s program of
   activities.

   372.11. The Facility shall ensure that no person is involved in food
   preparation or service, or otherwise works in the food preparation and/or
   service area, if that person shows signs or symptoms of illness, including
   vomiting, diarrhea, or uncovered infectious skin sores, or if that person is
   actually or likely infected with any bacterium or virus that can be carried in
   food.

   372.12. A Facility may only serve a special therapeutic diet to a child upon
   the written instruction of the child&#8217;s licensed health care
   practitioner.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 74-34 published at 21 DCR 1333 (December 27, 1974); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 3793 (April 27, 2007).
