                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPLAINT INVESTIGATIONS (ยง 29-312)

312.1. Upon receipt of a complaint alleging violation(s) of the provisions of
   the Act or this Chapter, the Director may conduct an on-site investigation,
   announced or unannounced, to determine the validity of the complaint.

   312.2. The Director shall investigate an allegation of activity that is
   life-threatening or imminently dangerous within (24) twenty-four hours of
   receipt of the complaint.

   312.3. The Director shall investigate complaints that do not allege
   life-threatening or imminently dangerous activity no later than thirty (30)
   days after receipt of the complaint.

   312.4. Upon completion of a complaint investigation, the Director shall
   provide a written statement to the Facility no later than ten (10) business
   days after the conclusion of the investigation. The statement shall include
   the specific provision(s) of law or regulation alleged in the complaint to
   have been violated, as well as whether the Facility was found to be in
   compliance. If the Facility is found not to be in compliance with one or more
   provisions, the Director shall provide the Facility with a written statement
   of deficiencies.

   312.5. If a Facility is provided with a statement of deficiencies as a result
   of a complaint investigation, the Director shall include in the statement of
   deficiencies a recommended plan of correction, including the designation of a
   time within which each cited deficiency must be corrected.

   312.6. If a Facility is provided with a statement of deficiencies as a result
   of a complaint investigation, the Director may conduct one or more additional
   on-site inspections, as needed, to verify compliance With respect to each
   cited deficiency, the on-site inspection shall take place after the completion
   of the recommended compliance period contained in the statement of
   deficiencies.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793(April 27, 2007)
