                                  DC REGULATIONS

STAFFING AND GROUP SIZE FOR OUT-OF-SCHOOL-TIME PROGRAMS (ยง 29-348)

348.1. Each group in a Child Development Center that provides
   out-of-school-time care shall be supervised by at least two (2) adults at all
   times.

   348.2. Each group containing one or more children eleven (11) years of age or
   younger shall be supervised by, at a minimum, a group leader and an assistant
   group leader. A group containing children all of whom are twelve (12) years of
   age and older may be occasionally supervised by a volunteer in addition to the
   group leader, provided that the volunteer is at least two (2) years older than
   the oldest child in the group.

   348.3. The group sizes and adult/child ratios specified in section 343 of this
   Chapter shall apply to out-of-school-time care programs, except as specified
   further in this section. For the purpose of achieving the required ratio for
   any group, the Facility may count all staff members, including those who meet
   the qualifications of Center Director, group leader and assistant group
   leader, provided that each such staff member is so counted only for the time
   that he or she is directly caring for that group of children.

   348.4. The Director may approve reasonable variations to the prescribed group
   size limitations for a facility, including flexible groupings and
   sub-groupings, taking into consideration the following areas:
   
   
   
   (a)	Qualifications and numbers of staff and volunteers;
   
   
   
   (b)	Program structure and focus;
   
   
   
   (c)	Ages and developmental levels of children served;
   
   
   
   (d)	Usable space; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The Facility&#8217;s past history of compliance

   348.5. The Facility shall have a written staffing plan to ensure the
   supervision of all enrolled children at all times. If written approval is
   obtained from the Director, the staffing plan may permit different levels of
   supervision at different times, consistent with the level of risk involved in
   each activity.

   348.6. The Facility shall ensure that its staff members keep each enrolled
   child within continuous visual and hearing range at all times when the child
   is in the care of the facility, both on the facility premises and elsewhere.
   When a child uses the toilet, the staff shall supervise with appropriate
   respect for the child&#8217;s privacy.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
