                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUMMARY SUSPENSION (ยง 29-314)

314.1. The Director may summarily and immediately suspend a license, for a
   period of not more than forty-five (45) calendar days, upon finding that the
   health, safety, or welfare of children, adults, or of the general public is in
   immediate danger.

   314.2. A summary suspension of a license is effective upon the delivery to the
   Facility of a Notice of Summary Suspension, which Notice shall be
   hand-delivered to the licensee, or to an adult employee or family member of
   the licensee, at the licensed premises.

   314.3. The Notice of Summary suspension shall state that the Facility may
   request an expedited hearing within five (5) business days of receipt of the
   Notice. The notice shall also comply with section 317 of this Chapter.

   314.4. When a Facility&#8217;s license is summarily suspended, the Director
   shall immediately repossess the license, and the Facility shall immediately
   cease providing child care.

   314.5. When a Facility&#8217;s license is summarily suspended, the Facility
   shall be responsible for providing parents with written notification of the
   suspension and for informing them of the need to make alternative child care
   arrangements. The Facility shall also provide the Director with a copy of the
   written notification.

   314.6. Upon a timely request for an expedited hearing pursuant to this
   section, the Office of Administrative Hearings shall conduct the hearing
   within five (5) business days of the request, and the Office of Administrative
   Hearings shall issue a decision within five (5) business days after the
   hearing record is closed.

   314.7. Upon completion of a hearing conducted pursuant to this section and
   closure of the hearing record, the Office of Administrative Hearings shall
   determine either that the summary suspension was warranted, in which case the
   suspension shall continue for a period not to exceed forty-five (45) days from
   the date of the decision, or that the summary suspension was unwarranted, in
   which case the suspension shall immediately cease and the license shall be
   immediately returned to the Facility.

   314.8. At or before the end of the suspension period, the Director shall
   either reinstate the license or initiate procedures for the revocation of the
   license.

   314.9. A license that has been summarily suspended may be reinstated before
   the end of the suspension period if the Director determines that the Facility
   is in substantial compliance with the Act and with this Chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
