                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATION OF MEDICATION (§ 29-377)

377.1. No Child Development Facility may provide medicine or treatment, with
   the exception of emergency first aid, to any child, unless the Facility has
   obtained a written medical order or prescription from the child&#8217;s
   licensed health care practitioner and the written consent of the child&#8217;s
   parent(s) or guardian(s).

   377.2. The Facility shall ensure that each medication ordered or prescribed is
   maintained by the Facility in its original container, and clearly labeled with
   the name of the child for whom it has been ordered or prescribed, the name of
   the medicine, the dosage, the method of administration, and the name and
   telephone number of the child&#8217;s licensed health care practitioner.

   377.3. The Facility may not administer any medication for any period beyond
   the date indicated on the medical order or prescription.

   377.4. The Facility shall maintain a medication log, on a form approved by the
   Director, on which the Facility shall record the date, time of day,
   medication, medication dosage, method of administration, and the name of the
   person administering the medication, each time any medication is administered
   to a child.

   377.5. The Facility shall maintain all records pertaining to the
   administration of each medication to each child on file for a period of at
   least three (3) years after the administration of said medication, including
   the written instructions and authorization of the licensed health care
   practitioner, the written instructions and authorization of the parent(s) or
   guardian(s), and the medication log entries completed by the Facility. The
   Facility shall make these records available for review by the Director upon
   request.

   377.6. The Facility shall ensure that each medication requiring refrigeration
   is maintained at a temperature between thirty-five and forty degrees
   Fahrenheit (35° F &#8211; 40° F), and that all refrigerated medications are
   kept in a separate storage container within the Facility&#8217;s refrigerator
   so as to prevent potential cross-contamination with foods.

   377.7. For each child for whom medication is administered at the Facility, the
   Facility shall obtain from the parent or guardian of the child, in writing,
   each day, a statement indicating when the last dose was administered prior to
   the child&#8217;s arrival at the Facility, and the Facility shall add this
   information to the medication log.

   377.8. In case of an emergency involving actual or potential poisoning, the
   Facility may administer emergency treatment without previous written
   instruction, as directed by an authorized poison control center;

   377.9. The Facility may administer nonprescription topical ointments,
   including sun block, petroleum jelly, and diaper ointment, to a child, upon
   obtaining the permission of the child&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s).

   377.10. The Facility shall maintain each nonprescription topical ointment in
   its original container, and shall administer each such ointment in accordance
   with the manufacturer&#8217;s instructions.

   377.11. A Facility that provides out-of-school-time care to school-age
   children may permit a school-age child to administer his or her own
   medication, under the direct supervision of a staff member, upon receipt of
   written authorization for the child&#8217;s self-administration of the
   medication from the child&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s).

   377.12. A Facility that provides out-of-school-time care to school-age
   children may permit a school-age child with asthma to carry his or her own
   inhaler and to self-administer medication from it as needed, and may permit a
   child with a chronic illness or disability to self-test for the appropriate
   medical indicator(s) and to self-administer medication as needed, upon receipt
   of written authorization from the child&#8217;s licensed health care
   practitioner and written consent from the child&#8217;s parent(s) or
   guardian(s). In each such case, the Facility shall ensure that all staff
   members are informed of the fact that the particular child is permitted to
   self-test and/or to self-administer his or her medication.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
