                                  DC REGULATIONS

QUALIFICATIONS OF CAREGIVERS IN EXPANDED CHILD DEVELOPMENT HOMES (ยง 29-358)

358.1. Each Caregiver in an Expanded Child Development Home shall comply with
   the qualification requirements for Caregivers in Child Development Homes
   contained in this Chapter, except as specifically provided herein.

   358.2. Each Primary Caregiver in an Expanded Child Development Home shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be at least twenty-one (21) years of age;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have obtained one of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	An associate&#8217;s degree or higher from an accredited college or
   university in early childhood education or early childhood development;
   
   
   
   (2)	At least forty-eight (48) credit hours from an accredited college or
   university, including at least fifteen (15) credit hours from an accredited
   college or university in early childhood education or early childhood
   development;
   
   
   
   (3)	A current and valid Child Development Associate credential;
   
   
   
   (4)	A current and valid accreditation credential from the National Association
   for Family Child Care; or
   
   
   
   (5)	Subject to the approval of the Director, a current and valid family child
   care credential from another jurisdiction, obtained by successfully completing
   a state-approved course of training of at least ninety (90) hours in length;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	Have successfully completed one of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	At least one (1) year of operation as the Caregiver in a licensed Child
   Development Home, or its equivalent in another jurisdiction; or
   
   
   
   (2)	At least one (1) year of employment in a licensed Child Development
   Center, or its equivalent in another jurisdiction, as a Center Director,
   Teacher or Assistant Teacher.

   358.3. For the purposes of this section, early childhood development and early
   childhood education shall include the courses listed in subsection 332.3 of
   this Chapter.

   358.4. Each Associate Caregiver in an Expanded Child Development Home shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be at least eighteen (18) years of age;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a high school diploma or a General Education Development certificate,
   with the exception that all Caregivers licensed on the effective date of these
   rules shall have four (4) years from that date within which to obtain the
   diploma or certificate; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Have successfully completed one of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	At least one (1) year of operation as the Caregiver in a licensed Child
   Development Home, or its equivalent in another jurisdiction; or
   
   
   
   (2)	At least one (1) year of employment in a licensed Child Development
   Center, or its equivalent in another jurisdiction, as a Center Director,
   Teacher or Assistant Teacher.

   358.5. Each Caregiver shall be responsible for the performance of all duties
   listed in subsection 352.2 of this Chapter, concerning &#8220;Caregiver
   Responsibilities&#8221;.

   358.6. The enrolled children shall be supervised at all times by one or both
   of the Caregivers, or by a substitute Caregiver who is certified in First Aid
   and CPR for children and has been previously approved by the Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 74-34 published at 21 DCR 1333 (December 27, 1974); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 3793 (April 27, 2007).
