                                  DC REGULATIONS

CHILDREN WITH SPECIAL NEEDS (ยง 29-379)

379.1. Each Child Development Facility that serves one or more children with
   special needs, including infants, toddlers, preschool-age children, and/or
   school-age children, shall comply with the specific additional requirements of
   this section.

   379.2. Upon the admission of a child with a special need, or upon the
   identification of a special need in an enrolled child, the Facility shall
   promptly obtain informed written consent, from the parent(s) or guardian(s) of
   the child, for the implementation of any treatment or protocol ordered by the
   child&#8217;s licensed health care practitioner.

   379.3. The Facility shall ensure that the care of each child with special
   needs who is less than thirty-six (36) months of age is consistent with that
   child&#8217;s Individual Family Services Plan (IFSP), and that the care of
   each child who is thirty-six (36) months of age or over is consistent with
   that child&#8217;s Individual Education Plan (IEP). The Facility shall
   maintain a copy of the child&#8217;s current IFSP or IEP on file at all times.

   379.4. The Facility shall maintain a written individualized care plan, in
   accordance with the child&#8217;s IFSP or IEP, for each enrolled child with
   special needs. This plan shall address the following areas, as needed and
   appropriate for the child:
   
   
   
   (a)	Child development services to be provided by the Facility;
   
   
   
   (b)	Other services to be provided by or at the Facility;
   
   
   
   (c)	Special training or qualifications required of one or more staff members
   to properly care for the child in light of his or her special needs;
   
   
   
   (d)	Nutrition and feeding, including feeding schedule and special training or
   qualifications required of staff members who may feed the child;
   
   
   
   (e)	Administration of medication;
   
   
   
   (f)	Use and maintenance of medical equipment and/or adaptive devices;
   
   
   
   (g)	Toileting and personal hygiene;
   
   
   
   (h)	Procedures and instructions for medical emergencies;
   
   
   
   (i)	Procedures for other emergencies, including participation in emergency
   evacuation drills; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Transportation requirements.

   379.5. Before disclosing any information concerning the child to any person,
   including a licensed health care practitioner, who is not employed by the
   Facility, the Facility shall obtain written permission from the child&#8217;s
   parent(s) or guardian(s).

   379.6. The Facility shall provide each child with special needs with:
   
   
   
   (a)	Developmentally appropriate toys and materials;
   
   
   
   (b)	Developmentally appropriate play equipment which meets the requirements of
   the Americans with Disabilities Act;
   
   
   
   (c)	Appropriate assistance and attention from staff members; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Reasonable accommodations to enable the child to participate in the
   activities of the Facility, including field trips.

   379.7. If health services or therapeutic services are provided at the
   Facility, the Facility shall ensure that these services are provided in
   accordance with the child&#8217;s IFSP or IEP and by practitioners who are
   licensed or otherwise authorized by law to provide the applicable services in
   the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
