                                  DC REGULATIONS

24-HOUR FACILITIES (ยง 29-360)

360.1. Each Child Development Facility that offers twenty-four (24) hour care
   shall comply with all applicable requirements contained in this Chapter, in
   addition to the specific requirements listed in this section.

   360.2. The Facility shall ensure that each activity is appropriate both for
   the period of the day and for the age of each participating child.

   360.3. The Facility shall obtain written consent from a child&#8217;s
   parent(s) or guardian(s) before Facility staff bathe and/or shower that child,
   with the exception that, in emergency situations such as regurgitation or
   bedwetting, Facility staff may take appropriate measures to clean an affected
   child.

   360.4. Each Facility shall meet the following requirements for rest and sleep:
   
   
   
   (a)	If a child is in the care of the Facility after 6:00 p.m. on a regular
   basis, the Facility shall establish a bedtime routine, in consultation with
   that child&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s) and taking into account the age
   and developmental needs of the child and the time of the child&#8217;s
   scheduled pickup from the Facility, on the first day of enrollment, and the
   Facility shall document the routine in that child&#8217;s record;
   
   
   
   (b)	If a child is in the care of the Facility after 6:00 p.m. on an occasional
   basis, the Facility shall establish a bedtime routine, in consultation with
   that child&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s) and taking into account the age
   and developmental needs of the child and the time of the child&#8217;s
   scheduled pick-up from the Facility, on each such occasion;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Facility shall provide each enrolled child with an individual bed,
   cot, or crib that is appropriate for the child&#8217;s age and size;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Facility shall ensure that bed linens are changed before the bed, cot,
   or crib is used by a different child;
   
   
   
   (e)	The Facility shall provide, or shall ensure that each enrolled
   child&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s) provide, appropriate clothing for the
   child to wear while sleeping;
   
   
   
   (f)	The Facility shall ensure that all cribs, cots, and beds are maintained in
   a clean and sanitary condition;
   
   
   
   (g)	If a Facility provides one or more bunk beds for the use of enrolled
   children, the Facility shall ensure that no child under seven (7) years of age
   is placed in a top bunk;
   
   
   
   (h)	The Facility shall ensure that all beds, cots, cribs and mattresses have
   firm surfaces and meet the standards established by the Consumer Product
   Safety Commission;
   
   
   
   (i)	The Facility shall ensure that all beds, cots, and cribs, when in use, are
   placed at least two (2) feet apart, and that each is at least two (2) feet
   away from any radiator and/or window;
   
   
   
   (j)	The Facility shall ensure that no bed, cot or crib blocks or impedes
   access to any exit;
   
   
   
   (k)	The Facility shall ensure that no other person shares a bed, cot or crib
   with an enrolled child;
   
   
   
   (l)	The Facility shall ensure that no enrolled child five (5) years of age or
   older shares a sleeping room with an adult;
   
   
   
   (m)	The Facility shall ensure that staff monitor sleeping children at least
   once every three (3) hours, and maintain a written record of this monitoring;
   and
   
   
   
   (n)	The Facility shall provide night-lights near the exit of each sleeping
   room, along each hallway adjacent to a sleeping room, and near each bathroom
   to be used by enrolled children during the overnight hours.

   360.5. Each Facility that provides twenty-four (24) hour care to school-age
   children shall comply with the following additional requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Facility shall establish a homework routine for each school-age child,
   in consultation with the parent(s) or guardian(s) of that child, on the first
   day of enrollment, and shall document the routine in that child&#8217;s
   record;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Facility shall ensure that each school-age child is afforded quiet
   time and is provided with a quiet area for doing homework, as needed;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Facility staff shall provide assistance with homework, when needed;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	If an enrolled child is to go to school directly from the Facility, the
   Facility shall enter into a written agreement with that child&#8217;s
   parent(s) or guardian(s), on or before the first day of enrollment, that
   specifies the means by which the child shall get to school and the person(s)
   responsible for accompanying the child to school, and the Facility shall
   maintain a copy of this agreement in the child&#8217;s record.

   360.6. Each Facility shall comply with all applicable requirements concerning
   nutrition that are contained elsewhere within this Chapter, in addition to the
   following special requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Facility shall provide or serve dinner and a snack to each child
   scheduled to remain in care overnight, unless the Facility and the
   child&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s) enter into a written agreement
   specifying that the child will eat dinner before arriving at the Facility; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The Facility shall provide breakfast to each child who has been in care
   overnight at the Facility and is going directly from the Facility to school.

   360.7. Each Facility providing twenty-four (24) hour care shall comply, at all
   times, with the adult/child ratio and staff qualifications requirements
   contained in this Chapter.

   360.8. The Facility shall ensure that staff members are available at all times
   to attend to the needs of the children, and that at least one (1) adult staff
   member is awake and within sight and hearing range of the children at all
   times.

   360.9. The Facility shall establish and implement emergency contingency plans,
   to address both medical and non-medical emergencies at all hours of the day
   during which care may be provided, including during natural and/or man-made
   emergencies that necessitate evacuation from the Facility, temporary
   displacement from the Facility, or confinement to the Facility.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
