                                  DC REGULATIONS

INDOOR PROGRAM SPACE IN CENTERS (§ 29-340)

340.1. For the purposes of this Chapter, &#8220;Program Space&#8221; is
   defined as space within the Facility, exclusive of: food preparation areas,
   kitchens, bathrooms, toilets, offices, staff rooms, corridors, hallways,
   stairways, closets, lockers, laundry rooms, furnace rooms, file cabinets,
   storage spaces, and non-movable furniture that is not designed for the use of
   enrolled children.

   340.2. Each Facility shall provide adequate indoor space for the daily program
   of the Facility. The Director shall determine the licensed capacity of each
   Facility serving infants, toddlers, and/or preschoolers so that there is a
   minimum of thirty-five square feet (35 ft2) of program space per child. Each
   such Facility shall maintain a minimum of thirty-five square feet (35 ft2) of
   program space per child at all times.

   340.3. The temperature within each room of program space shall be maintained
   at between sixty-five degrees Fahrenheit (65°F) and seventy-five degrees
   Fahrenheit (75°F) during the winter months, and between sixty-eight degrees
   Fahrenheit (68°F) and eighty-two degrees Fahrenheit (82°F) during the summer
   months.

   340.4. Each Facility shall provide a separate room, or a separate designated
   area within a room, for the temporary or ongoing care of a child who needs to
   be separated from the group due to injury or illness. This room or area shall
   be located so that any child placed within it is within sight and hearing of
   the Facility staff at all times, and so that toilet and lavatory facilities
   are readily accessible. This room or area may be used for other purposes when
   not needed for such separation of a child.

   340.5. If a Child Development Center is located in a building that also houses
   other entities or persons, the portion of the building to which the children
   from the Facility have access shall be for the exclusive use of children and
   staff of the Facility during the Facility&#8217;s hours of operation, with the
   exception of entryways, hallways, and other common areas in the building
   normally available for use by the public.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
