                                  DC REGULATIONS

CRIMINAL AND BACKGROUND HISTORY CHECKS (§ 29-328)

328.1. The Child Development Facility shall inform every applicant for
   employment of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	The applicant must satisfactorily complete a criminal background check, as
   required by the Child and Youth, Safety and Health Omnibus Amendment Act of
   2004, effective April 13, 2005 (D.C. Law 15-353, D.C. Official Code §§
   4-1501.01 et seq.), and subsequent amendments thereto, and according to the
   rules promulgated pursuant to that law, or as required by any superseding
   District of Columbia or federal law, and must also satisfactorily complete a
   child protection register check, before he or she can be unconditionally
   employed;
   
   
   
   (b)	Unless otherwise provided in rules promulgated pursuant to the Child and
   Youth, Safety and Health Omnibus Amendment Act or superseding law, the
   criminal background and child protection register checks must both be
   completed within the three (3) months preceding application;
   
   
   
   (c)	Unless otherwise provided in rules promulgated pursuant to the Child and
   Youth, Safety and Health Omnibus Amendment Act or superseding law, the
   applicant must provide the Facility with the certified results of the criminal
   background and child protection register checks, or, at the Facility&#8217;s
   discretion, with all information that will enable the Facility to promptly
   obtain the results of the criminal background and child protection register
   checks of the applicant, including each state in which the applicant has
   resided or worked, the applicant&#8217;s social security number, and all names
   the applicant has used;
   
   
   
   (d)	The applicant has the right to obtain copies of the criminal background
   and child protection register check reports and to challenge the accuracy and
   completeness of the reports;
   
   
   
   (e)	The Facility shall deny employment to any person who has been convicted of
   an offense, in the District of Columbia or in any other jurisdiction, which
   constitutes a bar to employment in an agency or entity that provides direct
   services to children and youth, or as a result of which a duly authorized
   District of Columbia Government official has determined that the person poses
   a danger to children or youth, as provided in the Child and Youth, Safety and
   Health Omnibus Amendment Act, or in subsequent amendments thereto, or in rules
   promulgated pursuant to that law, or as provided in any superseding District
   of Columbia or federal law, as more fully described in subsection 313.1(e) of
   this Chapter, and shall deny employment to any person who has been adjudicated
   as a child abuser or neglecter, or who has been determined, following a
   proceeding in which due process rights were afforded, by the applicable child
   protection agency or authority to have been a child abuser or neglecter, in
   the District of Columbia or in any other jurisdiction; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The Facility may deny employment to the applicant until the results of the
   criminal background and child protection register checks are final.

   328.2. All records of criminal background checks and child protection register
   checks of applicants and employees shall be confidential.

   328.3. The Facility shall require the applicant to provide the names of and
   contact information for at least three (3) references, who shall be unrelated
   to the applicant. The Facility shall check at least three (3) references for
   each applicant, and shall ascertain that the applicant is suitable for
   employment in a position of close interaction with children, prior to
   employment of the applicant.

   328.4. The Facility shall maintain a record of the reference checks performed
   for each applicant. The record shall include either: a signed and dated letter
   of reference received by the Facility; or documentation of a reference check
   conducted by telephone, including the name of the Facility licensee,
   Caregiver, Center Director, or designee conducting the check, the name and
   telephone number of the reference, the date of the check, and written comments
   regarding the check.

   328.5. The Facility may enter into a conditional employment agreement with an
   applicant pending the outcome of the criminal background and child protection
   register checks, provided that the applicant submits to the Facility a signed
   notarized statement affirming that he or she has not been convicted of any
   offense listed in section 313 of this Chapter nor has been placed on a child
   protection register, and that the reference checks indicate that the applicant
   is suitable for employment in a position of close interaction with children.

   328.6. No Facility shall be subject to civil liability that, in good faith,
   relies on a criminal background check, a child protection register check, or a
   reference check to terminate, or to refuse to offer employment to, any
   individual.

   328.7. Updated criminal background and child protection register checks shall
   be conducted as required by the Child and Youth, Safety and Health Omnibus
   Amendment Act or by superseding District of Columbia or federal law.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 74-34 published at 21 DCR 1333 (December 27, 1974), as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 3793 (April 27, 2007).
