                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTINUING EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR STAFF IN CENTERS (ยง 29-338)

338.1. Each paid employee of a Child Development Center serving infants,
   toddlers, and/or preschoolers whose duties and/or responsibilities include the
   care of enrolled children shall participate in at least eighteen (18) hours of
   training annually in the fields of child and youth development and/or early
   childhood education.

   338.2. The required annual training shall include the following subject areas:
   
   
   
   (a)	Child health, including standard health care precautions, and communicable
   diseases and appropriate responsive action thereto;
   
   
   
   (b)	Child abuse and neglect prevention, detection and reporting, including
   mandatory reporting requirements;
   
   
   
   (c)	Developmentally appropriate programming for infants, toddlers, preschool
   and/or school-age children, as applicable;
   
   
   
   (d)	Permissible and developmentally appropriate methods of child discipline;
   
   
   
   (e)	Inclusion of children with special needs, including the Americans with
   Disabilities Act; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Precautions against Sudden Infant Death Syndrome; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Any other area as determined by the Director.

   338.3. Acceptable subject areas for continuing education and training, as
   required by this section, include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any area listed in subsection 332.3 of this Chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Child abuse and neglect recognition, prevention, and mandatory reporting;
   
   
   
   (c)	First aid and CPR for children;
   
   
   
   (d)	Prevention, recognition, and management of communicable diseases;
   
   
   
   (e)	Medication administration;
   
   
   
   (f) 	Use of physical space and play equipment;
   
   
   
   (g)	Communication and collaboration with parents and families;
   
   
   
   (h)	Community health and social services resources for children and families;
   
   
   
   (i)	Planning programs and activities for children and families;
   
   
   
   (j)	Enhancing self-control and self-esteem in children;
   
   
   
   (k)	Developmentally appropriate discipline methods and techniques for infants,
   toddlers, and/or children; and
   
   
   
   (l)	Any other area as determined by the Director.

   338.4. In-service training that meets the requirements of this Chapter may
   occur in a variety of settings, including, but not limited to: seminars;
   courses held by colleges, universities or technical schools; workshops,
   conferences, and association meetings; and accredited distance education,
   including training via the Internet.

   338.5. Each Facility shall obtain and maintain adequate documentation of each
   staff member&#8217;s participation in continuing education. Acceptable
   documentation shall include one or more of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Transcript from an accredited college, university or technical school;
   
   
   
   (b)	Certification of participation from a training source approved by the
   Distance Education Training Council;
   
   
   
   (c)	Written documentation verifying completion of training in First Aid for
   children, CPR for children, and/or common childhood illnesses, from acceptable
   sponsoring entities, including the American Red Cross, the American Heart
   Association, the National Safety Council, and other similarly recognized and
   accredited organizations; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A signed and dated statement from the trainer, on a form approved by the
   Director, verifying the staff member&#8217;s participation in a training
   program conducted by a trainer licensed, certified, or otherwise approved by
   the District of Columbia government.

   338.6. Each volunteer serving a Child Development Center shall participate, at
   least annually, in a training seminar, which shall include a review of the
   subject areas listed in subsection 338.2.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793(April 27, 2007)
