                                  DC REGULATIONS

SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR OUTDOOR PLAY SPACE AND EQUIPMENT IN ENCLOSED YARDS ON
FACILITY PREMISES (ยง 29-367)

367.1. Each Child Development Facility utilizing an outdoor play space on the
   Facility premises shall enclose the outdoor play space with a fence or natural
   barrier, which shall be at least four (4) feet high, with a space no larger
   than 3 1/2 inches between its bottom edge and the ground, and designed to
   discourage climbing.

   367.2. The Facility shall provide at least two exits from each outdoor play
   space; at least one of these exits shall be remote from the Facility
   building(s).

   367.3. The Facility shall ensure that all outdoor gates have positive
   self-latching closure mechanisms, that shall be at least four and one-half (4
   1/2) feet off the ground and/or constructed in a manner so that they cannot be
   opened by a preschool-age child.

   367.4. The Facility shall ensure that the design, construction and
   installation of all outdoor play equipment is consistent with the guidelines
   published by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission in its
   &#8220;Handbook for Public Playground Safety&#8221; and with the standards
   established by the American Society for Testing and Materials

   367.5. The Center Director, Caregiver, or designated Facility staff shall
   conduct a daily inspection of each outdoor play space. The inspection shall
   include, at a minimum, an inspection of the space itself, and of each piece of
   equipment, for obvious hazards, and the removal of all trash, debris, broken
   glass and other foreign or hazardous materials.

   367.6. Each Facility serving both preschool and school-age children shall
   separate the outdoor play spaces used by infants, toddlers, and preschool
   children from the play spaces used by school-age children. The separation
   shall be accomplished so as not to limit the activities of either age group.

   367.7. The Facility shall ensure that all surface areas beneath and in the
   fall zones of climbing equipment, slides, swings, and similar equipment are
   covered in resilient material that is designed to absorb falls.

   367.8. The Facility shall ensure that all outdoor equipment is securely
   anchored and installed so as to prevent tipping or collapsing.

   367.9. The Facility shall ensure that all outdoor play equipment is free of
   pinch, crush or shear points on all surfaces that are or may be accessible to
   children.

   367.10. The Facility shall provide only swing seats constructed of durable,
   lightweight, relatively pliable material.

   367.11. The Facility shall not provide trampolines, with the exception of
   small trampolines that have jumping surfaces no higher than twelve (12) inches
   off the ground. If a Facility chooses to provide such trampolines, the
   Facility shall ensure that all trampoline play is closely supervised and that
   children do not have unsupervised access to any trampoline.

   367.12. The Facility shall maintain all outdoor sandboxes and play areas
   containing sand in a safe and sanitary condition.

   367.13. In addition to the daily inspections required under subsection 367.5,
   the Center Director, Caregiver, or designated Facility staff shall thoroughly
   inspect each piece of playground equipment, at least monthly, for the
   following hazards:
   
   
   
   (a)	Visible cracking, bending, warping, rusting or breaking;
   
   
   
   (b)	Deformation of open hooks, shackles, rings, links, and the like;
   
   
   
   (c)	Worn swing hangers and chains;
   
   
   
   (d)	Missing, damaged or loose swing seats;
   
   
   
   (e)	Broken supports or anchors;
   
   
   
   (f)	Exposed, cracked or loose cement support footings;
   
   
   
   (g)	Exposed tubing ends that require plugs or cap covers;
   
   
   
   (h)	Accessible sharp edges or points;
   
   
   
   (i)	Protruding bolt ends that require caps or covers;
   
   
   
   (j)	Loose bolts, nuts or screws that require tightening;
   
   
   
   (k)	Splintered, cracked or otherwise deteriorating wood;
   
   
   
   (l)	Moving parts in need of lubrication;
   
   
   
   (m)	Worn bearings or other worn mechanical parts;
   
   
   
   (n)	Broken or missing rails, steps, rungs or seats;
   
   
   
   (o)	Worn or scattered surfacing materials;
   
   
   
   (p)	Exposed hard surfaces, especially under swings and slides;
   
   
   
   (q)	Chipped and/or peeling paint;
   
   
   
   (r)	Pinch or crush points; and
   
   
   
   (s)	Exposed mechanisms, junctures, and moving components.

   367.14. The Facility shall record each monthly inspection of playground
   equipment, shall maintain this record, and shall present it to the Director
   upon request.

   367.15. If any hazard listed in this section is noted or observed, the
   Facility shall immediately correct the hazardous condition or shall remove the
   piece of equipment from use until it is corrected.

   367.16. The Facility shall ensure that no lawn mowers, hedge clippers, shears
   and other similar items are used or stored unlocked in any outdoor play space
   when children are present.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
