                                  DC REGULATIONS

ROOFTOP PLAY SPACE (ยง 29-366)

366.1. If a Child Development Facility chooses to utilize a rooftop play
   space, the Facility shall enclose the rooftop play space with a sturdy fence
   at least six (6) feet high and designed to discourage climbing.

   366.2. The Facility shall provide a fire escape, which leads from the rooftop
   play space to an open space at the ground level of the Facility premises, and
   for which the Facility has received written approval from the Department of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs or the Department of Fire and Emergency
   Medical Services.

   366.3. Before a Facility may utilize a rooftop play space, the Facility shall
   obtain written certification from a licensed structural engineer that the
   additional load presented by the children, staff, and play equipment on the
   roof is within the load capacity of the building structure.

   366.4. Before a Facility may utilize a rooftop play space, the Facility shall
   obtain written certification from a licensed industrial or civil engineer of
   the safety of the fence, and shall submit this certification to the Director.

   366.5. Each Facility utilizing a rooftop play space shall, at least annually:
   (1) obtain an annual inspection of the fence around the play space by a
   licensed industrial or civil engineer; (2) obtain a written certification from
   the inspecting engineer of the safety of the fence; and (3) submit this
   certification to the Director.

   366.6. Each Facility utilizing a rooftop play space shall undergo and pass an
   annual safety inspection of the space by the Department of Fire and Emergency
   Medical Services.

   366.7. Each Facility utilizing a rooftop play space shall post a copy of each
   current certification and/or safety report next to the Facility&#8217;s
   license, in a conspicuous location on the Facility premises.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
