                                  DC REGULATIONS

GROUP LEADER QUALIFICATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES FOR OUT-OF-SCHOOL-TIME PROGRAMS
(ยง 29-346)

346.1. In a Child Development Center that provides both out-of-school-time
   care and care for infants, toddlers, and/or preschoolers, a qualified teacher
   shall be deemed to meet the qualification requirements for a group leader.

   346.2. A group leader in a Child Development Center that provides
   out-of-school-time care only shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age and
   shall meet one of the following qualification requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	An associate&#8217;s degree or higher from an accredited college or
   university in education or child and youth development;
   
   
   
   (b)	At least forty-eight (48) credit hours from an accredited college or
   university, at least nine (9) credit hours from an accredited college or
   university in education or child and youth development, plus at least six (6)
   months supervised experience working with children of legal school age and
   under the age of fifteen (15) years, in an accredited school or camp, a
   licensed Child Development Center, or the equivalent; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A high school diploma or its equivalent, plus at least one (1) year
   supervised experience working with children of legal school age and under the
   age of fifteen (15) years, in an accredited school or camp, a licensed Child
   Development Center, or the equivalent.

   346.3. In order to qualify for the purpose of this section, a period of
   supervised work experience must include an average of no less than twenty (20)
   hours per week. One (1) year experience is equal to one thousand (1,000)
   hours. Multiple qualifying periods may be aggregated in order to achieve the
   required total.

   346.4. The duties and responsibilities of each group leader shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Supervising, assisting, and guiding the children in his or her assigned
   group;
   
   
   
   (b)	Assisting the Center Director in planning the program of care;
   
   
   
   (c)	Supervising subordinate staff; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Communicating regularly with the parent(s) or guardian(s) of each child in
   his or her group concerning their children.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
