                                  DC REGULATIONS

HANDLING DIAPERS, TRAINING PANTS, AND TOYS (ยง 29-370)

370.1. Each Child Development Facility shall locate its diaper-changing area
   so that it is in close proximity to a source of warm running water and soap,
   and so that it is not in or near the Facility&#8217;s kitchen and eating
   areas.

   370.2. Each Facility shall store soiled diapers and training pants in
   designated and labeled containers, separate from all other waste, including
   soiled clothes and linens. The Facility shall provide a washable, plastic
   lined, tightly covered receptacle, which can be operated by a foot pedal,
   within arm&#8217;s reach of each diaper changing table, for the disposal of
   soiled diapers.

   370.3. No Facility may use cloth diapers for any child unless it has obtained
   a written statement, with supporting documentation, from a particular
   child&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s) that cloth diapers are required by the
   special medical circumstances of that child.

   370.4. The Facility shall provide one or more diaper-changing areas that have
   surfaces made of non-porous material.

   370.5. The Facility shall ensure that, for each diaper-changing area, the
   diaper-changing surface is cleaned and sanitized with a bleach solution or
   other appropriate germicide after each diaper change.

   370.6. The Facility shall ensure that the bleach solution or germicide used
   for cleaning and sanitizing the diaper-changing surface is kept inaccessible
   to the enrolled children at all times.

   370.7. The Facility shall provide an area for the storage of clean diapers and
   training pants which is clean and designated exclusively for that use, with
   the exception that the clean diaper and training pants storage area and the
   storage area for enrolled children&#8217;s clean clothes may be combined.

   370.8. The Facility shall store and/or dispose of soiled diapers, diapering
   materials and training pants as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Cloth diapers, training pants or clothing that are soiled with fecal
   matter and are to be sent home with a child shall be rinsed at the Facility at
   a location where food preparation does not occur, or shall be placed directly
   into a plastic container that is sealed tightly, and shall be stored away from
   the rest of the child&#8217;s belongings and out of reach of all children,
   until sent home with the child at the end of the day;
   
   
   
   (b)	Cloth diapers, training pants or clothing that are soiled with fecal
   matter and are to be laundered by the Facility shall be placed in a non-porous
   covered container, containing an appropriate germicidal solution, until
   laundered;
   
   
   
   (c)	Cloth diapers, training pants or clothing that are soiled with fecal
   matter and are to be either laundered by the Facility or sent home with a
   child for laundering may be held for laundering no longer than one day;
   
   
   
   (d)	Soiled disposable diapers and training pants shall be placed in a
   plastic-lined, covered container that shall be emptied, cleaned, and sanitized
   with an appropriate germicidal agent at least daily;
   
   
   
   (e)	Soiled disposable diapers and training pants shall be discarded at least
   daily;
   
   
   
   (f)	The Facility shall ensure that only disposable diapering materials,
   including wipes and changing pads, are used, except as provided further
   herein, and that each such disposable item is discarded, after one use, in the
   container used for the discard of soiled disposable diapers described in
   subsection (d);
   
   
   
   (g)	In the case of emergency, or if special medical circumstances are
   documented in accordance with this section, a Facility may use washable cloth
   diapering materials. If cloth materials are used, the Facility shall ensure
   that each such material is used only once and then stored in the manner
   required for cloth diapers described in this section; and
   
   
   
   (h)	The Facility shall ensure that all staff wear disposable gloves when
   changing diapers and training pants or when assisting children to remove
   soiled clothing, and that a new pair of gloves is worn for the diapering of or
   assistance with each successive child.

   370.9. The Facility shall ensure that any toy that is mouthed is promptly
   removed from the play area, sanitized with an appropriate germicide, and air
   dried, before it is returned to the play area.

   370.10. The Facility shall ensure that any toy that becomes soiled with blood,
   stool, urine or vomit is immediately removed and sanitized with an appropriate
   germicide.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
