                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICE OF NOTICE FOR ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS (ยง 29-317)

317.1. A Notice shall be provided by the Director to the Facility or applicant
   before the Director may take any of the following enforcement actions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Denial of issuance of a license;
   
   
   
   (b)	Denial of renewal of a license;
   
   
   
   (c)	Suspension of a license;
   
   
   
   (d)	Revocation of a license; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Issuance of a provisional or restricted license.

   317.2. A Notice required by this section may be served personally, or by
   certified mail, return receipt requested, directed to the applicant or
   Facility at the last known address as shown in the Department&#8217;s records,
   or at the address of the Facility premises.

   317.3. A copy of the Notice shall be delivered to the Office of Administrative
   Hearings within one day of service of the Notice.

   317.4. A Notice served personally is deemed served when it is delivered to the
   applicant or licensee, or to an adult employee or family member of the
   applicant or licensee, at the licensed premises or at the last known address.

   317.5. A Notice served by certified mail is deemed served on the date written
   or stamped upon the return receipt, indicating delivery of the Notice to the
   applicant or licensee or refusal of the applicant or licensee to accept
   delivery of the Notice.

   317.6. In the event that the applicant or licensee is not found at the address
   of the Facility nor at the last known address as shown in the records of the
   Department, and no forwarding address is available, the Notice shall be deemed
   served on the date that the return receipt bearing such notification is
   returned to the Director.

   317.7. A Notice of a proposed enforcement action shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nature of the proposed enforcement action;
   
   
   
   (b)	The effective date of the proposed action;
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of, and citation for, each violation alleged;
   
   
   
   (d)	In the case of a license suspension, the time period of the proposed
   suspension;
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement informing the applicant or Facility that it may make a request
   for a hearing by submitting a written request to the Office of Administrative
   Hearings within ten (10) days of receipt of the Notice, or, in a matter in
   which a different time period is prescribed by law, within the applicable time
   period;
   
   
   
   (f)	A statement informing the applicant or Facility that the proposed action
   may become final without a hearing if the applicant or Facility fails to
   request a hearing within the time and in the manner specified; and
   
   
   
   (g)	In the case of a license suspension, revocation, or conversion, a
   statement informing the Facility that it will be required to surrender its
   license upon final action to suspend, revoke, or convert the license to
   provisional or restricted status.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 003793 (April 27, 2007).
