                                  DC REGULATIONS

RIGHT OF ENTRY AND SUBPOENA POWERS (§ 29-303)

303.1. The Director and any other duly authorized official of the Department
   of Health, or of another agency of the District of Columbia having
   jurisdiction over, or responsibilities pertaining to, Child Development
   Facilities, after presenting official credentials of identification and
   authority issued by the District of Columbia, shall have the right, either
   with or without prior notice, to enter upon and into the premises of any Child
   Development Facility licensed under this Chapter, or for which an application
   for license has been made, in order to determine compliance with the Act and
   with this Chapter, and/or to facilitate verification of information submitted
   on or in connection with an application for licensure pursuant to provisions
   of the Act or of this Chapter. The conduct of the authorized official shall be
   such that entry and inspection shall take place with the least possible
   disruption to the child development program.

   303.2. The right of entry and inspection shall also extend to any premises
   that the Director, or other duly authorized official of an agency of the
   District of Columbia having jurisdiction over, or responsibilities pertaining
   to, Child Development Facilities, has reason to believe are being operated or
   maintained as a Child Development Facility without a valid license, provided
   that no entry or inspection of any unlicensed premises shall be made without
   the permission of the individual in charge of the premises or unless a warrant
   is first obtained from the D.C. Superior Court, pursuant to D.C. Official Code
   § 11-941, authorizing the entry or inspection for the purpose of determining
   compliance with the Act or with this Chapter.

   303.3. The Director is authorized to utilize subpoena power pursuant to D.C.
   Official Code §§ 1-301.21 and 7-2036 to supervise, inspect, and investigate
   Child Development Facilities in order to determine compliance with the
   provisions of the Act or of this Chapter.

   303.4. Authorized District of Columbia officials shall have access to all
   records of the Facility, including but not limited to: child, staff and
   administrative records; financial, tax and inspection records; policies and
   procedures; and any other information or documentation necessary to determine
   the Facility&#8217;s compliance with applicable federal and District of
   Columbia laws and regulations.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 74-34 published at 21 DCR 1333 (December 27, 1974); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 3793 (April 27, 2007).
