                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL DAILY PROGRAM ACTIVITIES IN CENTERS (ยง 29-344)

344.1. Each Child Development Center serving infants, toddlers, and
   preschoolers shall provide time each day for both quiet and active play,
   suitable to the ages and abilities of the children enrolled at the Facility.

   344.2. Each Center serving children in a full-day program shall ensure that
   each child, including infants, toddlers, and preschoolers, has a minimum of
   two (2) hours of outdoor play or outdoor activity each day.

   344.3. The Facility shall devise and implement a program of activities
   suitable to the ages and abilities of all of the children enrolled at the
   Facility. A copy of the program schedule for each age group shall be furnished
   by the Facility to the Director for evaluation upon request.

   344.4. The Director shall evaluate a Facility&#8217;s program of activities,
   and shall approve it if the following requirements are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The program shall include outdoor play each day, except that in extremely
   inclement weather the program may substitute indoor gross motor play such as
   climbing, jumping, running, riding wheel toys, and sports;
   
   
   
   (b)	All play materials shall be arranged in an orderly fashion, at heights
   that allow young children to select, remove, and replace materials with a
   minimum of assistance during appropriate times throughout the daily program;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	The program shall include a balance of both quiet and active play
   throughout the day.

   344.5. The Facility shall ensure that its staff observe and follow the
   Facility&#8217;s established program of activities.

   344.6. The Facility shall develop a written activity plan for each group of
   children that implements the elements of the program of activities.

   344.7. The Facility shall ensure that the daily activities for each group of
   children include both structured and unstructured times, and both
   staff-directed and child-initiated experiences.

   344.8. The Facility shall ensure that its program of activities provides
   periods of rest, the duration and scheduling of which are appropriate to
   prevent fatigue and to meet the physical needs of the children enrolled at the
   Facility, taking into account the ages and developmental levels of the
   children. Each child in a full-day program shall have specific times
   designated for rest each day.

   344.9. The Facility shall ensure that each child has a supply of clean, dry
   clothing in case of an emergency, and that staff promptly remove all wet or
   soiled clothing from a child and replace it with this clean and dry clothing.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 74-34 published at 21 DCR 1333 (December 27, 1974); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 3793 (April 27, 2007).
