                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE RECORDS ON CHILDREN (ยง 29-324)

324.1. The Child Development Facility shall maintain a record for each
   enrolled child, and shall retain the record for three (3) years following the
   termination of that child&#8217;s enrollment. All records required by this
   section shall be made available for inspection.

   324.2. The Facility shall maintain current records and information on
   children, including:
   
   
   
   (a)	Roster of enrolled children by age group;
   
   
   
   (b)	Daily attendance records by names of children, including first name, last
   name and middle initial of each child;
   
   
   
   (c)	Daily menu plan for feeding the children indicating the foods actually
   served on a daily basis;
   
   
   
   (d)	Daily schedule of activities; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Health records on enrolled children pursuant to section 325 and as
   otherwise provided in this Chapter.

   324.3. Each Facility shall maintain a register that shall include the
   following information for each child currently enrolled:
   
   
   
   (a)	The child&#8217;s full name;
   
   
   
   (b)	The child&#8217;s gender;
   
   
   
   (c)	Date of birth;
   
   
   
   (d)	Date of admission;
   
   
   
   (e)	Home address and telephone number;
   
   
   
   (f)	Full names of parents or guardians;
   
   
   
   (g)	Business addresses and telephone numbers of parents or guardians;
   
   
   
   (h)	Designation of individuals authorized to receive the child at the end of
   each session;
   
   
   
   (i)	Name and telephone number of individual to be contacted in emergencies
   when the parents or guardians are not available;
   
   
   
   (j)	Date and reasons for the child&#8217;s withdrawal;
   
   
   
   (k)	Language(s) spoken in the child&#8217;s home;
   
   
   
   (l)	Health information on each child as required by section 325 of this
   Chapter;
   
   
   
   (m)	Written authorization(s) for the administration of medication as required
   by section 377 of this Chapter, if applicable;
   
   
   
   (n)	For children in out-of-school-time care:
   
   
   
   (1)	The name of the school the child attends;
   
   
   
   (2)	The name and number of a contact person from that school; and
   
   
   
   (3)	If the child arrives at and leaves the Facility alone, the days and times
   at which the child should arrive and leave the Facility and the mode(s) of
   transportation that the child uses to travel to and from the Facility; and
   
   
   
   (o)	A record of the child&#8217;s developmental progress.

   324.4. The Facility shall have a current Emergency Medical Treatment
   Authorization form on file for each child, granting permission to the Facility
   to obtain medical treatment in case of an emergency that occurs while the
   child is in the care of the Facility. The form shall be approved by the
   Director and shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Signatures of the parent(s) or guardian(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	Information on the child&#8217;s/family&#8217;s health insurance coverage;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	A list of the child&#8217;s known illnesses and allergies; and
   
   
   
   (d)	In the event that any of this information changes, updated information and
   the date the updated information was added.

   324.5. The Facility shall maintain on file a written, signed and dated
   statement from each child&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s) authorizing the
   Facility to take the child on regularly scheduled trips from the Facility. The
   authorization shall include the child&#8217;s name, and shall specify the mode
   of transportation, the frequency, and the destination of each such trip.

   324.6. If the child is to be taken on a field trip that is not recorded as a
   routine trip, the Facility shall obtain a written authorization that includes
   the information required in subsection 324.5 in addition to the estimated time
   of departure and arrival.

   324.7. Written permission shall be considered valid for all regularly
   scheduled trips as noted in the statement submitted pursuant to subsection
   324.5 until withdrawn by the child&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s).

   324.8. The Facility shall not disclose information concerning an individual
   child or the child&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s) to persons other than the
   Facility staff or government officials acting in the course of their duties,
   unless the parent(s) or guardian(s) grant written permission for the
   disclosure, or unless disclosure is necessary in an emergency situation.

   324.9. The Facility shall inform the parent(s) or guardian(s) of all enrolled
   children, in writing, of the Facility&#8217;s policy regarding disclosure of
   information.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 74-34 published at 21 DCR 1333 (December 27, 1974); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 3793 (April 27, 2007).
