                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR LICENSURE AND EXAMINATION (§ 17-2501)

2501.1. Each applicant for a Certified Public Accountant’s license in the
   District of Columbia by examination, reciprocity, or for an endorsement of a
   Certified Public Accountant license, shall duly file with the Board an
   application on a form prescribed and provided by the Board.

   2501.2. An application for licensure is not considered filed until the Board
   receives all supporting documents, the application fee, and, if applicable,
   the examination fee. Supporting documents may include proof of identity as
   specified on the application form, certification of experience, official
   transcripts, and proof that the applicant has completed the education
   requirement.

   2501.3. Each applicant shall attest to the truthfulness of the application
   before a notary public, who shall affix his or her seal to the application.

   2501.4. Applications to take the Certified Public Accountant Examination shall
   be made on a form provided by the Board and filed with the Board by the due
   date specified by the Board in the application form. Applicants filing after
   the due date may be directed by the Board to take the computer-based Uniform
   CPA Examination during the next available examination window.

   2501.5. If applicable, the Board or its designee will forward notification of
   the applicant’s eligibility for the computer-based examination to the
   National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) for inclusion in
   the National Candidate Database.

   2501.6. Eligible candidates shall be notified of the time and place of a
   computer-based examination or shall independently contact the Board or a test
   center operator identified by the Board to schedule the time and place for the
   computer-based examination at an approved test site.  Scheduling
   reexaminations shall be made in accordance with the rules established by
   NASBA.

   2501.7. An applicant, upon receiving notification that he or she is eligible
   to take the CPA examination, shall be classified as a candidate for the
   purposes of these regulations.

   2501.8. A candidate who fails to appear for a scheduled Testing Event of the
   computer-based examination shall forfeit all fees charged for both the
   application and the examination.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4401 (April 30, 2004).
