                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDITIONAL CREDIT FOR EXAMINATION (§ 17-2506)

2506.1. The candidate is required to pass all Test Sections of the Uniform CPA
   Examination in order to qualify for a license.

   2506.2. Upon receipt of advisory grades from the examination provider, the
   Board will review and may adopt the examination grades and will report the
   official results to the candidate.

   2506.3. Before the implementation of a computer-based examination, a passing
   grade for each paper-and-pencil Test Section shall be 75. Upon implementation
   of the computer-based examination, the passing grade for each test section
   shall be the uniform passing grade established through the standard-setting
   procedure used by The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
   (AICPA) Board of Examiners (BOE) and reported to the Board by NASBA. The Board
   shall report the candidate’s score to the candidate using a numeric scale of
   0-99 that is calculated by AICPA. A score of 75 or greater shall represent a
   passing score.

   2506.4. Pending implementation of a computer-based examination, a candidate
   who passes two or more, but not all, sections of an examination at a given
   sitting shall be given credit for those sections that the candidate has passed
   and need not sit for reexamination in those sections, provided that:
   
   
   
   (a)	At the sitting, the candidate attempted to answer questions in all
   sections of the examination for which the candidate does not have credit;
   
   
   
   (b)	The candidate attained a minimum grade of 50 on each section taken at the
   sitting;
   
   
   
   (c)	The candidate passes the remaining sections of the examination within six
   consecutive examinations administered after the one at which the first
   sections were passed;
   
   
   
   (d)	At each subsequent sitting at which the candidate seeks to pass any
   additional sections, the candidate sits for all sections for which the
   candidate does not have credit; and
   
   
   
   (e)	In order to receive credit for passing additional sections in any
   subsequent sitting, the candidate attains a minimum grade of 50 on sections
   taken at that sitting.

   2506.5. Upon the Board’s implementation of a computer-based examination, a
   candidate may take the required Test Sections individually and in any order.

   2506.6. Any candidate taking the computer-based Uniform CPA Examination will
   be exempted from the provisions of § 2506.4.

   2506.7. Candidates shall pass all four Test Sections of the Uniform CPA
   Examination within any continuous eighteen-month period, which shall begin on
   the date that the first Test Section(s) passed is taken.

   2506.8. Candidates cannot retake a failed Test Section within the same
   three-month examination window during which the candidate failed that Test
   Section.

   2506.9. In the event all four Test Sections of the Uniform CPA Examination are
   not passed within any continuous eighteen-month period, credit for any Test
   Section(s) passed prior to the eighteen-month period will expire and that Test
   Section(s) shall be retaken.

   2506.10. Candidates having earned conditional credits on the paper-and-pencil
   examination, as of the launch date of the computer-based Uniform CPA
   Examination, will retain conditional credits for the corresponding Test
   Sections of the computer-based CPA examination as follows:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Paper-and-Pencil Examination
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Computer-Based Examination
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Auditing
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Auditing and Attestation
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Business Law and Professional
   
   
   
   
   
   Responsibilities (LPR)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Business Environment and Concepts
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Financial Accounting and Reporting (FARE)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Financial Accounting and Reporting
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Accounting and Reporting (ARE)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Regulation

   2506.11. Candidates who possess conditional credits earned under the
   paper-and-pencil examination as of the launch date of the computer-based
   Uniform CPA Examination will be allowed a transition period to complete any
   remaining Test Sections of the Uniform CPA Examination.

   2506.12. The transition period shall be calculated as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Conditional credit earned November 2001 expires after one attempt to pass
   the remaining sections or May 31, 2004, whichever occurs first;
   
   
   
   (b)	Conditional credit earned May 2002 expires after two attempts to pass the
   remaining sections or November 30, 2004, whichever occurs first;
   
   
   
   (c)	Conditional credit earned November 2002 expires after three attempts to
   pass the remaining sections or May 31, 2005, whichever occurs first;
   
   
   
   (d)	Conditional credit earned May 2003 expires after four attempts to pass the
   remaining sections or November 30, 2005, whichever occurs first; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Conditional credit earned November 2003 expires after five attempts to
   pass the remaining sections or May 31, 2006, whichever occurs first.

   2506.13. If a candidate who possesses conditional credit earned under the
   paper-and-pencil examination does not pass all remaining Test Sections during
   the applicable transition period, the conditional credits earned under the
   paper-and-pencil examination will expire and the candidate will lose credit
   for the Test Sections passed under the computer-based examination.

   2506.14. Any computer-based Test Section passed during the transition period
   is subject to the conditional credit provisions of the computer-based
   examination as shown in § 2506.4, except that a candidate that had earned
   conditional credit under the paper-and-pencil examination will not lose
   conditional credit for a Test Section of the computer-based examination that
   is passed during the transition period, even though more than eighteen months
   may have elapsed from the date the Test Section is passed, until the end of
   the transition period.

   2506.15. A candidate retains credit for each Test Section of an examination
   passed in another state if the candidate would have earned credit under the
   then applicable requirements if the candidate had taken the examination in the
   District of Columbia.

   2506.16. The Board may extend the term of an applicant’s conditional credit
   validity upon a showing by the applicant that the credit was lost due to
   circumstances beyond the candidate’s control.

   2506.17. A candidate is deemed to have passed the Uniform CPA Examination when
   the candidate holds, at the same time, valid credit for passing each of the
   four Test Sections of the examination. For purposes of this section, credit
   for passing a Test Section of the computer-based examination is valid from the
   actual date of the Testing Event for that Test Section, regardless of the date
   the candidate actually receives notice of the passing grade.

   2506.18. The candidate shall, for each Test Section scheduled by the
   candidate, pay to the Board or its designee, a Candidate Testing Fee. The
   Candidate Testing Fee is the total amount of the actual fees charged by the
   testing services or agencies, including rescheduling fees, plus the reasonable
   application fees established by the Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 8168 (November 19, 1993); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4401 (April 30, 2004).
