                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXAMINATIONS (§ 17-2505)

2505.1. The examination approved by the Board shall test the knowledge and
   skills required for performance as an entry-level certified public accountant.
   The Board may vote to utilize an examination developed and administered by a
   third party, but any examination approved by the Board shall include the
   subject areas of accounting, auditing, and related knowledge and skills.

   2505.2. The Director may charge, or provide for a third party administering
   the Board’s examination to charge, each applicant an examination fee.

   2505.3. Cheating by a candidate in applying for, taking, or after the
   examination will invalidate any grade otherwise earned by a candidate on any
   Test Section of the examination, and may warrant summary expulsion from the
   test site and disqualification from taking the examination for a specified
   period of time.

   2505.4. For purposes of this chapter, the following actions or attempted
   activities, among others, may be considered cheating:
   
   
   
   (a)	Falsifying or misrepresenting educational credentials or other information
   required for admission to the examination;
   
   
   
   (b)	Communication between candidates inside or outside the test site or
   copying another candidate’s answers while the examination is in progress;
   
   
   
   (c)	Communication with others inside or outside the test site while the
   examination is in progress;
   
   
   
   (d)	Substitution of another person to sit in the test site in the stead of a
   candidate;
   
   
   
   (e)	Reference to crib sheets, textbooks or other material or electronic media
   (other than that provided to the candidate as part of the examination) inside
   or outside the test site while the examination is in progress;
   
   
   
   (f)	Violating the nondisclosure prohibitions of the examination or aiding or
   abetting another in doing so; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Retaking or attempting to retake a Test Section by an individual holding a
   valid license or by a candidate who has unexpired credit for having already
   passed the same Test Section, unless authorized by the Board.

   2505.5. In any case where it appears that cheating has occurred or is
   occurring, the Board or its representatives may either summarily expel the
   candidate involved from the examination or move the candidate to a position in
   the test center away from other examinees where the candidate can be watched
   more closely.

   2505.6. In any case where the Board believes that it has evidence that a
   candidate has cheated on the examination, including those cases where the
   candidate has been expelled from the examination, the Board shall conduct an
   investigation and, following the examination session, may conduct a hearing
   consistent with the requirements of D.C. Official Code § 2-501 et seq.
   (2001), to determine whether there was cheating and, if so, what remedy should
   be applied. In proceedings held pursuant to this subparagraph, the Board shall
   decide:
   
   
   
   (a)	Whether the candidate shall be given credit for any portion of the
   examination completed in that session; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Whether the candidate shall be barred from taking the examination and if
   so, for a period of time not to exceed five (5) years.

   2505.7. In any case where the Board or its representative permits a candidate
   to continue taking the examination, it may:
   
   
   
   (a)	Admonish the candidate;
   
   
   
   (b)	Seat the candidate in a segregated location for the rest of the
   examination;
   
   
   
   (c)	Keep a record of the candidate’s seat location and identifying
   information;
   
   
   
   (d)	Keep the names and identifying information of the candidates in close
   proximity of the candidate; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Before the introduction of a computer-based examination, notify the
   appropriate authority of the circumstances, furnishing the candidate’s
   identification number, so that after the initial grading is completed, the
   candidate’s papers can be compared for unusual similarities with the papers
   of others who may have been involved. Upon introduction of a computer-based
   examination, notify NASBA and the AICPA and/or the test center of the
   circumstances, so that the candidate’s actions may be noted in the National
   Candidate Database and the candidate may be more closely monitored in future
   examination sessions.

   2505.8. In any case in which a candidate is refused credit for any Test
   Section of an examination taken, disqualified from taking any Test Section, or
   barred from taking the examination in the future, the Board will provide to
   NASBA and the Accountancy Board of any other state to which the candidate may
   apply for the examination information as to the Board’s findings and actions
   taken.

   2505.9. The Board shall approve an application to take the Certified Public
   Accountant Examination if the applicant establishes to the satisfaction of the
   Board that he or she:
   
   (a)	Holds a baccalaureate degree with a concentration in accounting conferred
   by a college or university recognized by the Board, or holds that which the
   Board determines to be substantially the equivalent thereof; or
   
   (b)	Holds a baccalaureate degree acceptable to the Board supplemented with the
   equivalent of an accounting concentration, including related courses in other
   areas of business administration; and
   
   (c)	For an applicant receiving his or her baccalaureate degree after January
   1, 2000, in addition to meeting the requirements of either paragraphs (a) or
   (b) of this subsection, the applicant must possess one hundred twenty (120)
   semester hours of college education; provided, that such an applicant will not
   be eligible for licensure unless or until the candidate possesses one hundred
   fifty (150) semester hours of college education, as required by § 2503.1(c).
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4401 (April 30, 2004); as
   amended by Final 		     Rulemaking at 56 DCR 3666 (May 8, 2009).
