                                  DC REGULATIONS

CODE OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT[COLON] RESPONSIBILITIES TO CLIENTS (§ 17-2512)

2512.1. A licensee shall not disclose, without the consent of his or her
   client, any confidential information pertaining to the client that the
   licensee obtained in the course of performing professional services.

   2512.2. The provisions of this section do not do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Relieve a licensee of any obligations under § 2511;
   
   
   
   (b)	Affect in any way a licensee’s obligation to comply with a validly
   issued subpoena or summons enforceable by order of a court of competent
   jurisdiction;
   
   
   
   (c)	Prohibit disclosures during a quality review of a licensee’s
   professional services;
   
   
   
   (d)	Preclude a licensee from responding to any inquiry made by the Board or
   any investigative or disciplinary body established by law or formally
   recognized by the Board; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Relieve a licensee from any obligations incurred under the Sarbanes-Oxley
   Act of 2002, approved July 30, 2002 (Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745 (2002)),
   and any rules or regulations promulgated pursuant thereto not already
   reflected within this chapter.

   2512.3. Members of the Board and professional practice reviewers shall not
   disclose any confidential client information that comes to their attention
   from licensees in disciplinary proceedings or otherwise in carrying out their
   responsibilities, except that they may furnish this information to an
   investigative or disciplinary body of the kind referred to in this section.

   2512.4. A licensee shall furnish to a client or former client, upon request
   made within a reasonable time after original issuance of the document in
   question, the following items:
   
   
   
   (a)	A copy of a tax return of the client;
   
   
   
   (b)	A copy of any report, or other document, issued by the licensee to or for
   the client;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any accounting or other records belonging to, or obtained from or on
   behalf of, the client that the licensee removed from the client’s premises
   or received from the client’s account; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A copy of the licensee’s working papers, to the extent that these
   working papers include records that would ordinarily constitute part of the
   client’s books and records and are not otherwise available to the client.

   2512.5. A licensee may take and retain copies of accounting or other records
   belonging to, or obtained from or on behalf of, the client that the licensee
   removed from the client’s premises or received from the client’s account,
   when these records form the basis for work done.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4401 (April 30, 2004).
