                                  DC REGULATIONS

CODE OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT[COLON] OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES AND PRACTICES (§
17-2513)

2513.1. A licensee shall not commit any acts of dishonesty, fraud, or
   falsification of records that reflect adversely on his or her moral fitness to
   engage in the practice of certified public accounting.

   2513.2. A licensee shall not permit others to carry out on his or her behalf,
   either with or without compensation, acts that, if carried out by the
   licensee, would place the licensee in violation of the Code of Professional
   Conduct.

   2513.3. A licensee shall not use or participate in the use of any form of
   public communication which refers to the licensee’s professional services
   that contains a false, fraudulent, misleading, deceptive, or unfair statement
   or claim including, but not limited to, a statement or claim that does the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Contains a misrepresentation of fact;
   
   
   
   (b)	Is likely to mislead or deceive because it fails to make full disclosure
   of relevant facts;
   
   
   
   (c)	Contains any testimonial, laudatory statement, or other statement or
   implication that the licensee’s professional services are of exceptional
   quality;
   
   
   
   (d)	Is intended or likely to create false or unjustified expectations of
   favorable results;
   
   
   
   (e)	Implies educational or professional attainments or licensing recognition
   not supported in fact;
   
   
   
   (f)	States or implies that the licensee has received formal recognition as
   specialist in any aspect of the practice of public accountancy, if this is not
   the case;
   
   
   
   (g)	Represents that professional services can or will be competently performed
   for a stated fee when this is not the case;
   
   
   
   (h)	Makes representations with respect to fees for professional services that
   do not disclose all variables affecting the fees that will in fact be charged;
   or
   
   
   
   (i)	Contains other representations or implications that in reasonable
   probability will cause an ordinarily prudent person to misunderstand or be
   deceived.

   2513.4. A licensee shall not solicit, by any direct personal communication, an
   engagement to perform professional services in the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	If the communication would violate § 2513.3, if it were a public
   communication or
   
   
   
   (b)	The communication uses coercion, duress, compulsion, intimidation,
   threats, overreaching, or vexatious or harassing conduct.

   2513.5. A licensee shall practice public accountancy only in a sole
   proprietorship, partnership, or professional corporation organized in
   accordance with the D.C. Professional Corporation Act, approved December 10,
   1971 (85 Stat. 576; D.C. Official Code § 29-401 et seq. (2001)) and D.C.
   Official Code § 47-2853.44 (2001).

   2513.6. A licensee shall not practice public accountancy under a firm name
   which is misleading in any way as to the legal form of the firm, or as to the
   persons who are partners, officers, or shareholders of the firm, or as to any
   matter with respect to which public communications are restricted by §
   2513.3. However, names of one or more past partners or shareholders may be
   included in the firm name of a partnership, corporation, or successor, and a
   partner surviving the death or withdrawal of all other partners may continue
   to practice under a partnership name for up to two (2) years after becoming a
   sole practitioner.

   2513.7. When requested, a licensee shall respond to communications from the
   Board within thirty (30) days of receipt by registered or certified mail
   unless otherwise specified.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4401 (April 30, 2004).
