                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTINUING EDUCATION[COLON] ACCEPTABLE CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL PROGRAMS (§
17-2531)

2531.1. Unless a program qualifies for an exemption from the requirements of
   this subsection, the Board shall only approve a program as acceptable for
   continuing professional education (CPE) credit if NASBA lists the program in
   NASBA’s National Registry of CPE Sponsors (Registry) or The Quality
   Assurance Service (QAS).  If NASBA removes a CPE program from the Registry or
   the QAS for any reason, the program shall no longer qualify as acceptable to
   offer CPE courses or credit to licensees. Program sponsors removed from the
   Registry or the QAS by NASBA must inform the Board of the removal in writing
   and within fifteen (15) calendar days of the action.

   2531.2. Acceptable continuing education programs exempt from the requirements
   of 2531.1, but not exempt from the standards established in the Statement on
   Standards of Continuing Professional Education (CPE) Programs developed
   jointly by NASBA and the AICPA, and subject to audit by the Board, may include
   classes, correspondence courses, institutes, conferences, lectures,
   professional meetings, seminars, or other comparable educational activities
   offered by the following organizations:
   
   
   
   (a)	AICPA;
   
   
   
   (b)	NASBA;
   
   
   
   (c)	State Accounting Boards;
   
   
   
   (d)	Firms such as Accounting Firms, Law Firms, Brokerage Firms, Insurance
   Firms, and others offering professional programs to CPAs;
   
   
   
   (e)	Colleges; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Universities
   
   
   
   (g)	Greater Washington Society of Certified Public Accountants and any other
   State Society of CPA’s.

   2531.3. Continuing education credits received from an acceptable program shall
   be granted for programs taken in the following subject areas:
   
   
   
   (a)	Accounting and auditing;
   
   
   
   (b)	Taxation;
   
   
   
   (c)	Management;
   
   
   
   (d)	Computer Science;
   
   
   
   (e)	Communication Arts (accounting oriented);
   
   
   
   (f)	Mathematics, Statistics, Probability and Quantitative Applications in
   Business;
   
   
   
   (g)	Economics;
   
   
   
   (h)	Business Law;
   
   
   
   (i)	Functional fields of business including; finance, production, marketing,
   personnel relations, and business management and organization;
   
   
   
   (j)	Specialized areas of industry, such as oil and gas, real estate, farming,
   or any other specialized industry;
   
   
   
   (k)	Administrative Practice (accountant’s legal liability, engagement
   letters, and personnel); and
   
   
   
   (l)	Professional Ethics (beginning January 1, 2005).

   2531.4. Credit may be granted by the Board for subjects other than those
   specified in § 2531.3 upon a showing by the applicant that the subjects
   contribute to professional competence. The responsibility for demonstrating
   the contribution of a particular program shall rest solely upon the applicant.

   2531.5. The Board may grant credit for the following group programs:
   
   
   
   (a)	Professional education and development programs of national, state, and
   local accounting organizations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Technical sessions of meetings of national, state, and local accounting
   organizations and their chapters;
   
   
   
   (c)	University or college courses, both credit and non-credit;
   
   
   
   (d)	Formal in-firm education programs;
   
   
   
   (e)	Programs of other organizations (accounting, industrial, professional,
   etc.);
   
   
   
   (f)	Committee meetings of professional societies which are structured as
   formal education programs; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Other structured formal educational programs.

   2531.6. Licensees requesting credit for continuing education courses taken to
   satisfy the requirements set forth in § 2530 shall submit a written
   application to the Board on the form approved by the Board.

   2531.7. The proper fees and all required documents shall accompany the
   application when filing.

   2531.8. Every licensee applying for license renewal who is denied
   accreditation or certification of their continuing education credit, for
   reasons other than the program’s failure to meet the requirements of §
   2531.1, shall be given an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to § 2524.

   2531.9. Continuing professional education credit shall be given for whole
   hours or half hours, with a minimum of fifty (50) minutes constituting one (1)
   hour and a minimum of twenty-five (25) minutes constituting one-half hour.  As
   an example, one hundred (100) minutes of continuous instructions would count
   as two (2) hours. Only time spent in instruction, and not preparation time,
   shall be credited.

   2531.10. Each semester hour of credit shall equal fifteen (15) hours toward
   the requirement, and a quarter hour of credit shall equal ten (10) hours for
   university or college courses.

   2531.11. Credit for correspondence and formal individual study programs,
   including taped study programs, shall be as recommended by the program sponsor
   on the basis of one-half the average completion time under appropriate
   “field tests.” Licensees claiming credit for such correspondence or formal
   individual study courses shall be required to obtain evidence of satisfactory
   completion of the course from the program sponsor. Credit shall be allowed in
   the renewal period in which course is completed.

   2531.12. Credit for committee and firm meetings is limited to twenty-five
   percent (25%) of the hours reported.

   2531.13. Credit for courses covered under Sec. 2531.4 is limited to 25% of the
   hours reported.

   2531.14. An instructor, discussion leader or speaker at approved programs may
   claim continuing professional education credit for both preparation and
   presentation time.  Credit may be claimed for actual preparation time up to
   two (2) times the class contact hours.  The maximum credit for preparation and
   teaching time shall be fifty percent (50%) of the applicable renewal period
   requirement. For repetitive presentations, the instructor shall receive no
   credit unless he or she can demonstrate that the subject matter involved was
   changed sufficiently to require significant additional study or research.

   2531.15. Credit may be granted for published articles and books, provided they
   contribute to the professional competence of the applicant. Credit for
   preparation of publications may be claimed on a self-requirement basis for up
   to twenty-five percent (25%) of the renewal period requirement. In exceptional
   circumstances an applicant may request additional credit by submitting the
   article(s) or book(s) to the Board with an explanation of the circumstances
   which justify a greater credit. The amount of credit awarded for a given
   publication shall be determined by the Board.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4401 (April 30, 2004).
