                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 17-2599)

2599.1. As used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   		Act &#8211; Non-Health Related Occupations and Professions Licensure Act of
   			1998 (D.C. Law 12-261; Official Code § 47-2853.01 et seq. (2001)).
   
   
   
   		AICPA &#8211; the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
   
   
   
   		Applicant &#8211; an individual who applies to the Board for licensure by
   			examination, reciprocity, or by endorsement.
   
   
   
   		Attest &#8211; providing the following financial statement services:
   
   
   
   (1)	Any audit or other engagement to be performed in accordance with the
   Statements on Auditing Standards (SAS) or its successor or assignee;
   
   
   
   (2)	Any review of a financial statement to be performed in accordance with the
   Statements on Standards for Accounting and Review Services (SSARS) or its
   successor or assignee; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Any examination of prospective financial information to be performed in
   accordance with the Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE)
   or its successor or assignee.
   
   
   
   		Board &#8211; the District of Columbia Board of Accountancy.
   
   
   
   		Candidate &#8211; an individual who is approved by the Board to take the
   			Uniform CPA Examination.
   
   
   
   		Certificate &#8211; a certificate as “certified public accountant”
   issued as part of 			licensure under corresponding provisions of District of
   Columbia law, or a 		corresponding certificate as certified public accountant
   issued after 			examination under the law of any other state.
   
   
   
   		Certified Public Accountant (CPA) &#8211; a person licensed under this
   			chapter and the Act to provide accounting or consulting services under
   			circumstances where there is an expectation of public confidence in such
   			services, and attesting to the results, including (1) expressing opinions
   on 			financial statements (audits); (2) reviewing financial statements and
   			issuing reports in standard form on such statements; (3) compiling
   				financial statements and issuing reports in standard form on such
   				compilations; (4) examining prospective financial information.
   
   
   
   		Client &#8211; the person or entity retaining a licensee for the performance
   of 			public accounting services.
   
   
   
   		Compilation &#8211; providing a service to be performed in accordance with
   			Statements on Standards for Accounting and Review Services (SSARS) 			that
   is presenting in the form of financial statements, information that is 			the
   representation of management (owners) without undertaking to express 		any
   assurance on the statements.
   
   
   
   		Computer-Based Examination &#8211; the Uniform CPA Examination
   				administered by NASBA on a computer-based medium.
   
   
   
   		Conditional Credits &#8211; credits earned by a candidate for achieving a
   			passing score on either the paper-and-pencil or computer-based Uniform
   			CPA Examination.
   
   
   
   		CPA &#8211; see certified public accountant.
   
   
   
   		CPA Firm &#8211; a sole proprietorship, a corporation, a partnership or any
   			other form of organization issued a permit by the District of Columbia or
   			other recognized granting state.
   
   
   
   		Department &#8211; the D.C. Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.
   
   
   
   		Director &#8211; the Director of the D.C. Department of Consumer and
   				Regulatory Affairs, or his or her agent or designee.
   
   
   
   		Enterprise &#8211; a person or entity, whether organized for profit or not,
   for 			which a licensee performs public accounting services.
   
   
   
   		Examination window &#8211; defined by NASBA in the Uniform CPA
   				Examination Candidate Bulletin as a three-month period in which
   				candidates have an opportunity to take the CPA examination, comprised
   			of two months in which the examination is available to be taken and one
   			month in which the examination will not be offered.
   
   
   
   		Financial statements &#8211; statements and related footnotes that purport
   to 			show financial position at a point in time or changes in financial
   position 			which relate to a period of time, on the basis of generally
   accepted 				accounting principles or another comprehensive basis of
   accounting. The 			term does not include incidental financial data included in
   management 			advisory services reports to support recommendations to a
   client, nor does 			it include tax returns and supporting schedules.
   
   
   
   		Foreign (nonresident) &#8211; unless otherwise indicated, refers to
   jurisdictions 			outside of the District of Columbia but within the states and
   territories of 			the United States of America.
   
   
   
   		Generally accepted accounting principles &#8211; the pronouncements issued
   			by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the predecessor entities,
   		and similar pronouncements issued by other entities having similar,
   			generally recognized authority.
   
   
   
   		Generally accepted auditing standards &#8211; the generally accepted
   auditing 		standards adopted by the American Institute of Certified Public
   				Accountants, together with interpretations thereof, published by the
   			American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
   
   
   
   		Incidental practice &#8211; the practice of public accountancy for a client
   the 			headquarters or home office of which is located outside the District
   but 			which has a branch or subsidiary located in the District, for which the
   			practice of public accountancy is being performed.
   
   
   
   		International Qualifications Appraisal Board (IQAB) &#8211; a joint body of
   			the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy and the
   				American Institute of CPAs that negotiates Mutual Recognition
   				Agreements with the accountancy licensing authorities of foreign
   				countries.
   
   
   
   		International Uniform Certified Public Accountant Qualification
   			Examination (IQEX) &#8211; the CPA examination used to assess the
   				professional competence of accountants licensed in foreign countries that
   			have entered into a Mutual Recognition Agreement with the IQAB.
   
   
   
   		Licensee &#8211; an individual or firm holding license issued under D.C.
   Official 		Code § 47-2853.01 et seq. (2001).
   
   
   
   		License &#8211; a valid license as defined in the Acts and issued in
   accordance 			with D.C. Official Code § 47-2853.01 et seq. (2001).
   
   
   
   		License Cycle &#8211; the two-year cycle in which licenses or permits issued
   			under this chapter are valid.
   
   
   
   		Manager &#8211; a manager of a limited liability company.
   
   
   
   		Member &#8211; a member of a limited liability company.
   
   
   
   		Mutual Recognition Agreement &#8211; an agreement entered into between
   			NASBA and the AICPA through the International Qualifications 				Appraisal
   Board (IQAB) with a foreign country’s licensing authority after 			a
   determination has been made that the education, experience, and
   				examination requirements of the foreign jurisdiction are substantially
   			equivalent to the requirements set forth in the Uniform Accounting Act.
   
   
   
   		National Candidate Database &#8211; the database maintained by NASBA
   			identifying the individuals that have applied to take the computer-based
   			Uniform CPA Examination administered by NASBA.
   
   
   
   		NASBA &#8211; the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy.
   
   
   
   		National Registry of CPE Sponsors (Registry) &#8211; a service offered by
   			NASBA that lists organizations that provide high quality CPE in
   				accordance with nationally recognized standards.
   
   
   
   		Nonresident &#8211; see foreign.
   
   
   
   		Paper-and-pencil examination &#8211; the Uniform CPA Examination in which
   		candidates for licensure as a Certified Public Accountant answered
   			questions by using paper-and-pencil and utilized by NASBA up until
   			November 2003.
   
   
   
   		Peer review – an independent study, appraisal, or review of one (1) or
   			more aspects of the professional work of a CPA firm which may include 			an
   internal review or inspection to ensure the firm’s compliance with
   			required professional standards relating to quality control policies and
   			procedures.
   
   
   
   Peer reviewer- a CPA firm responsible for conducting a peer review.
   
   
   
   Peer review committee – a committee appointed by a sponsoring organization
   to oversee the administration, acceptance, and completion of a peer review.
   The committee is primarily responsible for determining whether a peer review
   has been performed in accordance with required standards, interpretations, and
   related guidance materials.
   
   
   
   		Permit &#8211; a permit to practice as a CPA firm issued by the District of
   			Columbia or corresponding provisions of prior law or under corresponding
   		provisions of the laws of other states.
   
   
   
   		Person &#8211; includes partnerships, corporations, and associations, as
   well as 			natural persons.
   
   
   
   		Periodic accounting work &#8211; accounting work recurring from time to
   time.
   
   
   
   		Practice of certified public accountancy &#8211; offering to perform or
   				performing for a client or potential client one or more types of services
   			involving the use of accounting or auditing skills, or one or more types of
   			management advisory or consulting services, or the preparation of tax
   			returns or the furnishing of advice on tax matters, while holding oneself
   			out in a manner that would state or imply that one is a licensee.
   
   
   
   		Professional &#8211; arising out of or related to the specialized knowledge
   or 			skills associated with CPAs.
   
   
   
   		Professional Ethics &#8211; any continuing education course approved by the
   			Board in which the content of the course includes instruction on the code
   			of ethics developed by AICPA and NASBA.
   
   
   
   		Professional Practice Reviewer &#8211; a person retained by the Board to
   assist 			in an investigation or disciplinary proceeding conducted by the
   Board or 			other disciplinary body referred to in this chapter or the Act.
   
   
   
   		Professional services &#8211; any service performed or offered to be
   performed 			by a licensee for a client during the practice of public
   accountancy as 			defined in this section.
   
   
   
   		Quality Assurance Service (QAS) &#8211; a service offered by NASBA that
   			recognizes organizations that provide self-study CPE courses of the
   			highest caliber
   
   
   
   		Report &#8211; when used with reference to financial statements, means an
   			opinion, report, or other form of language that states or implies assurance
   			as to the reliability of any financial statements and that also includes or
   is 			accompanied by any statement or implication that the person or firm
   			issuing it has special knowledge or competence in accounting or auditing.
   			Such a statement or implication of special knowledge or competence may
   			arise from use by the issuer of the report of names or titles indicating
   that 			the person or firm is an accountant or auditor, or from the language
   of the 			report itself. The term “report” includes any form of language
   which 			disclaims an opinion when such form of language is conventionally
   			understood to imply any positive assurance as to the reliability of the
   			financial statements referred to and/or special competence by the person or
   		firm issuing such language; and it includes any other form of language that
   		is conventionally understood to imply such assurance and/or such special
   			knowledge or competence.
   
   
   
   Report acceptance body – a subcommittee established by a peer review
   committee which is responsible for, but not limited to, the acceptance of peer
   review documents.
   
   
   
   		Resident Manager &#8211; an individual licensed under this chapter and the
   Act 			that manages a single office or branch of a partnership or corporation
   			licensee.
   
   
   
   		Rule &#8211; any rule, regulation, or other written directive of general
   				application duly adopted by the Board.
   
   
   
   		State &#8211; any state of the United States, the District of Columbia,
   Puerto 			Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam; except that “this
   State” means 			the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Sponsoring organization – an entity administering a peer review program
   whose standards of review are equivalent to or better than the “Standards
   for Performing and Reporting on Peer Reviews” of the American Institute of
   Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), as determined by the Board.
   
   
   
   		Substantial Equivalency &#8211; a determination by the board of accountancy
   			or its designee that the education, examination and experience
   				requirements contained in the statutes and administrative rules of another
   			jurisdiction are comparable to, or exceed the education, examination and
   			experience requirements contained in the Uniform Accountancy Act or 			that
   an individual CPA’s education, examination and experience 				qualifications
   are comparable to or exceed the education, examination and 			experience
   requirements contained in the Uniform Accountancy Act.
   
   
   
   		Temporary accounting work &#8211; accounting work to be performed only
   			once for a particular client.
   
   
   
   		Testing Event &#8211; the actual date that a candidate sits for one or more
   			sections of the computer-based Uniform CPA Examination administered 			by
   NASBA.
   
   
   
   		Test Section &#8211; one of the four parts of the Uniform CPA Examination.
   
   
   
   		Uniform CPA Examination &#8211; the examination created and graded by
   			AICPA and administered by NASBA (directly or through a third-party) in
   			paper-and-pencil format through November 2003 and computer-based 			format
   beginning in 2004.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4401 (April 30, 2004); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 5186, 5190 (May 18,
   2012).
