                                  DC REGULATIONS

CODE OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT[COLON] INDEPENDENCE, INTEGRITY, AND OBJECTIVITY
STANDARDS (§ 17-2510)

2510.1. A licensee shall not permit his or her name to be associated with
   financial statements of an enterprise when the association would imply that
   the licensee is acting as an independent certified public accountant to the
   enterprise unless he or she is independent.

   2510.2. A licensee shall not claim independence if, during the period of a
   professional engagement or when expressing an opinion, the licensee did any of
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Had or was committed to acquire any direct or material indirect financial
   interest in the enterprises;
   
   
   
   (b)	Was a trustee of any trust, or executor or administrator of any estate, if
   the trust or estate had or was committed to acquire any direct or material
   indirect financial interest in the enterprise;
   
   
   
   (c)	Had any joint, closely held business investment with the enterprise or
   with any officer, director, or principal stockholder of the enterprise which
   was material in relation to the net worth of either the licensee or the
   enterprise; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Had any loan to or from the enterprise or any officer, director, or
   principal stockholder of the enterprise other than loans of the following
   kinds made by a financial institution under normal lending procedures, terms,
   and requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	Loans obtained by the licensee that are not material in relation to the
   net worth of the borrower;
   
   
   
   (2)	Home mortgage; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Other secured loans, except those secured solely by guarantee of the
   licensee.

   2510.3. A licensee shall not claim independence if, during the period covered
   by the financial statements or the professional engagement, or when expressing
   an opinion, the licensee was as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Connected with the enterprise as a promoter, underwriter, voting trustee,
   director or officer, or in any capacity equivalent to that of a member of
   management or of an employee; or
   
   
   
   (b)	A trustee for any pension or profit-sharing trust of the enterprise.

   2510.4. A licensee shall not, in the performance of professional services,
   knowingly misrepresent facts or subordinate his or her judgment to others.

   2510.5. In tax practice, a licensee may resolve doubt in favor of his or her
   client as long as there is reasonable support for the position.

   2510.6. A licensee shall not receive a commission from any party for
   recommending to a client any product or service when the licensee also
   performs for that client:
   
   
   
   (a)	An audit or review of a financial statement;
   
   
   
   (b)	A compilation of a financial statement when the licensee expects, or
   reasonably might expect, that a third party will use the financial statement
   and the licensee’s compilation report does not disclose a lack of
   independence; or
   
   
   
   (c)	An examination of prospective financial information.

   2510.7. The provisions of § 2510.6 shall not prohibit the following payments:
   
   
   
   (a)	Payments for the purchase of all, or a material part, of an accounting
   practice;
   
   
   
   (b)	Retirement payments to persons formerly engaged in the practice of public
   accountancy; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Payments to the heirs or estate of persons formerly engaged in the
   practice of public accountancy.

   2510.8. Any licensee who is paid or expects to be paid a non-prohibited
   commission for referring products or services to a client shall disclose such
   commission to a client.

   2510.9. Any licensee who accepts a referral fee from another licensee for
   recommending or referring any service of a licensee to any person or entity,
   or who pays a referral fee to another licensee to obtain a client, shall
   disclose such acceptance of or payment of a referral fee to the client.

   2510.10. A licensee shall not:
   
   
   
   (a)	Perform any professional services for a contingent fee or receive a
   contingent fee from a client for whom the licensee or the licensee’s firm
   performs;
   
   
   
   (1)	An audit or review of a financial statement;
   
   
   
   (2)	A compilation of a financial statement when the licensee expects, or
   reasonably might expect, that a third party will use the financial statement
   and the licensee’s compilation report does not disclose a lack of
   independence; or
   
   
   
   (3)	An examination of prospective financial information.
   
   
   
   (b)	Prepare an original or amended tax return or claim for a tax refund for a
   contingent fee for any client.

   2510.11. The prohibition in § 2510.6 applies during the period in which the
   licensee is engaged to perform any of the services listed in § 2510.10 and
   the period covered by any financial statements involved in any such listed
   services.

   2510.12. Unless otherwise allowed by this chapter or the Act, a licensee may
   not enter into a contingent fee agreement.

   2510.13. A contingent fee agreement exists when the licensee’s fee for
   services depends upon the findings or results of the licensee’s services.

   2510.14. A fee is not a contingent fee if a court or other public authority
   fixes the fee, or, in tax matters, if the fee is based upon the results of
   judicial proceedings or the findings of governmental agencies.

   2510.15. A licensee may vary fees, for reasons such as the complexity of
   services rendered, and such variation is not considered a contingent fee.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4401 (April 30, 2004).
