                                  DC REGULATIONS

DENIAL, SUSPENSION, AND REVOCATION OF LICENSES (§ 17-2520)

2520.1. Each applicant for examination, and each applicant for or holder of a
   license, shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing by the Board
   before the Board takes any action that would have one (1) or more of the
   following effects:
   
   
   
   (a)	Denial of permission to take an examination for a license for which an
   applicant has correctly filed and whose application has been accepted as
   meeting the qualifications for examination;
   
   
   
   (b)	Denial of a license after an examination for any cause other than failure
   to pass the examination;
   
   
   
   (c)	Denial of a license by endorsement to an applicant who meets the
   qualifications set forth in the Acts;
   
   
   
   (d)	Denial of a license to an applicant who meets the qualifications set forth
   in these regulations and the Acts;
   
   
   
   (e)	Suspension of a license;
   
   
   
   (f)	Revocation of a license;
   
   
   
   (g)	Reprimand of a licensee; or
   
   
   
   (h)	Refusal to issue a renewal by annual registration for any cause other than
   failure to pay the prescribed renewal fee or the operation of any other
   District law that prohibits the Department from issuing a renewal license for
   reasons unrelated to a deficiency in the application or the applicant’s
   professional conduct.

   2520.2. When the Board contemplates taking any action of the type specified in
   § 2520.1(a), (b), or (c), it shall give the applicant a written notice at
   least fifteen (15) days before the hearing. The notice shall contain the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the applicant has failed to satisfy the Board as to his or her
   qualification to sit for examination or to be approved for licensure, as the
   case may be;
   
   
   
   (b)	The reasons that the applicant has failed to satisfy the Board;
   
   
   
   (c)	That the applicant may obtain a hearing before the Board by making a
   request for a hearing in the following manner:
   
   
   
   (1)	Write a letter to the Board that contains a request for a hearing; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Mail the letter by certified mail or deliver the letter in person within
   twenty (20) days after service of the notice.
   
   
   
   (d)	That the applicant may be represented at the hearing by counsel.

   2520.3. When the Board contemplates taking any action of the type specified in
   §§ 2520.1(d), (e), (f), (g), or (h), it shall give the person concerned a
   written notice at least fifteen (15) days before the hearing. The notice shall
   contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the Board has sufficient evidence which, if not rebutted or
   explained, justifies the Board in taking the proposed action; and
   
   
   
   (b)	That the Board will take the proposed action unless the person concerned
   requests a hearing before the Board by making a request for a hearing in the
   following manner:
   
   
   
   (1)	Write a letter to the Board that contains a request for a hearing; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Mail the letter by certified mail or deliver the letter in person within
   twenty (20) days after service of the notice.
   
   
   
   (c)	That the applicant may be represented at the hearing by counsel.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4401 (April 30, 2004).
