                                  DC REGULATIONS

PEER REVIEW REQUIREMENTS FOR CURRENT LICENSEES (§ 17-2551)

2551.1. The Board shall determine if a firm with a current license is required
   to be enrolled in a peer review program pursuant to § 2548.

   2551.2. If the Board determines that a firm is required to be enrolled in a
   peer review program, notice shall be sent to the firm manager requiring him or
   her to submit to the Board, within thirty (30) days from receipt of the
   notice,:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Proof from a sponsoring organization of the firm’s enrollment in a peer
   review program;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The approximate due date of the firm’s next peer review report; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A copy of the firm’s most recent peer review report and the sponsoring
   organization’s acceptance letter that the firm received within three (3)
   years prior to submitting the application. If the firm has not received a peer
   review report and acceptance letter within the three (3) year time period, it
   shall notify the Board of that fact.
   
   
   
   2551.3  	Failure to comply with the requirement imposed in § 2551.2 above
   shall result in the Board initiating disciplinary action against the firm’s
   license.
   
   
   
   2551.4 	If the Board receives a peer review report on a licensed firm that is
   classified as adverse, fail, second successive modified, or second successive
   pass with deficiencies, the firm’s responses to the report shall be
   presented to the Board for review and determination of any action to be taken
   against the firm, after taking into consideration:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The deficiencies described in the report;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The firm’s written response to the report that was sent to the
   sponsoring organization;
   
   
   
   (c)	A letter from the firm describing the current status of the deficiencies
   that comprised the basis for the report; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any remedial action instituted by the firm since the issuance of the
   report.

   2551.5. If a firm is not enrolled in an approved peer review program when it
   enters into an agreement to perform any engagement that is subject to peer
   review in accordance with § 2548, it shall not continue to work on the
   engagement until it has:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Enrolled in an approved peer review program; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Submitted to the Board a letter of enrollment in an approved peer review
   program from a sponsoring organization.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 5186, 5188 (May 18,
   2012).
