                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT OF HEARINGS (ยง 17-2939)

2939.1. A hearing before the Director under this chapter shall be open to the
   public.

   2939.2. A respondent entitled to a hearing has the right to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	To be represented by an attorney in accordance with ยง2935;
   
   
   
   (b)	To present all relevant evidence by means of witnesses and books, papers,
   and other evidence;
   
   
   
   (c)	To examine all opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	To have subpoenas issued to compel the attendance of witnesses and the
   production of relevant books, papers, and other evidence, upon making a
   written request to the Director.

   2939.3. In connection with any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, the
   Director has the power:
   
   
   
   (a)	To administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses;
   
   
   
   (b)	To subpoena respondents and other witnesses and relevant books, papers,
   and documents;
   
   
   
   (c)	To take testimony;
   
   
   
   (d)	To examine witnesses;
   
   
   
   (e)	To direct the continuance of any case; and
   
   
   
   (f)	To enter into a consent agreement.

   2939.4. In proceedings before the Director, if any person refuses to respond
   to a subpoena or refuses to take the oath or affirmation as a witness or
   thereafter refuses to be examined, or refuses to obey any lawful order of the
   Director, the Director may make application to the Superior Court of the
   District of Columbia for an order requiring obedience thereto.

   2949.5. In a proceeding resulting from the Director&#8217;s intended action to
   deny a license, the respondent has the burden of satisfying the Director of
   the respondent&#8217;s qualifications.

   2939.6. In a proceeding resulting from the Director&#8217;s intended action to
   suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew a license, the Director has the burden of
   proving that such action should be taken.

   2939.7. The Director shall make a complete record of all evidence presented
   during the course of a hearing and shall furnish copy to a party to the
   proceedings upon payment of the prescribed fee.

   2939.8. The Director may grant a motion for a continuance which sets forth
   good cause for the request. The Director may deny any motion for a continuance
   which is not filed at least two (2) business days prior to the date of the
   hearing.

   2939.9. After the hearing, and within time limits established by the Director,
   the parties may submit proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and
   order, and may also submit memoranda of law on issues law arising during the
   hearing.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 6630, 6651 (September 2, 1988).
