                                  DC REGULATIONS

MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ANIMAL FACILITIES (§ 17-2912)

2912.1. This section sets forth the minimum standards for animal facilities.
   This section, except for §2912.9, is applicable to mobile clinics.

   2912.2. Except as provided in §2912.3, a facility shall have the following
   areas:
   
   
   
   (a)	A reception area separate from other designated areas;
   
   
   
   (b)	An examination room;
   
   
   
   (c)	A laboratory area;
   
   
   
   (d)	A surgery room separate from all other areas;
   
   
   
   (e)	An animal housing area;
   
   
   
   (f)	An animal exercise area;
   
   
   
   (g)	An animal treatment area;
   
   
   
   (h)	A lavatory;
   
   
   
   (i)	A radiology area;
   
   
   
   (j)	A radiology processing room;
   
   
   
   (k)	A drug storage and dispensing area;
   
   
   
   (l)	A record keeping area; and
   
   
   
   (m)	An isolation area for effective separation of contagious and
   non-contagious cases.

   2912.3. A facility shall not be required to have a laboratory area, surgery
   room, radiology area, or radiology processing room if the facility proves to
   the satisfaction of the Director that the facility uses consultant services
   for diagnostic-quality X-rays, laboratory services, and surgery.

   2912.4. A facility shall at a minimum have the following equipment in good
   working order:
   
   
   
   (a)	A stethoscope;
   
   
   
   (b)	An ophthalmoscope;
   
   
   
   (c)	An otoscope;
   
   
   
   (d)	A thermometer;
   
   
   
   (e)	Scales;
   
   
   
   (f)	An oxygen and delivery system; and
   
   
   
   (g)	If surgery is performed, the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	An autoclave with monitoring devices; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Anesthetic support equipment.

   2912.5. Each examination room shall meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be of sufficient size to accommodate the veterinarian, assistants, animal,
   and owner; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Have, at a minimum, the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A table with a non-porous surface;
   
   
   
   (2)	A waste receptacle; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Sanitizing solution.

   2912.6. Cages or housing systems of an animal facility shall meet the
   following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Have sufficient space to allow animals freedom of movement;
   
   
   
   (b)	Maintain a temperature between sixty-five and seventy-five degrees
   Fahrenheit (65° to 75° F.);
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide access to adequate food and water as required by §2913;
   
   
   
   (d)	Maintain animals that must be in a group without overcrowding;
   
   
   
   (e)	Maintain animals in good health as measured by such factors as the
   maintenance of normal body weight and the prevention of the spread of
   communicable diseases;
   
   
   
   (f)	Be designed for effective sanitary maintenance;
   
   
   
   (g)	Be kept in good repair to prevent injury to the animal and to promote
   physical comfort, and be free of sharp corners and edges, broken wires, and
   any dangerous surfaces; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Be of materials that are impervious to water, wear, and corrosion, not
   including wood.

   2912.7. The buildings and grounds of the facility shall be maintained to
   provide for the well-being of the animals and health and safety of the
   facility&#8217;s personnel and public.

   2912.8. The animal facility shall be kept clean. A regular schedule of
   sanitary maintenance is required, including the elimination of wastes as
   described in §§2912.9 to 2912.17.

   2912.9. The animal facility shall provide an area readily susceptible to
   proper sanitation which is available for the sole purpose of exercising
   animals.

   2912.10. Animal rooms, corridors, storage areas, and other parts of the animal
   facility shall be cleaned as often as necessary, using appropriate detergents
   and disinfectants to keep them free of dirt, debris, and contamination.

   2912.11. If litter or bedding, such as paper, is used in animal cages or pens,
   it shall be changed as often as necessary to keep the animals dry and clean
   and to minimize offensive odors.

   2912.12. Cages or pens from which animal waste is removed hosing or flushing
   shall be cleaned and suitably disinfected at least once a day. Animals shall
   be removed from cages during servicing.

   2912.13. Animal cages, racks, and accessory equipment, such as feeders and
   water utensils, shall be washed and sanitized as often as necessary to keep
   them clean and free from contamination. In addition, cages shall be sanitized
   before new animals are placed in them. Sanitizing may accomplished either by
   washing all soiled surfaces with a cleaning agent having an effective
   bactericidal action or with live steam or the equivalent thereof.

   2912.14. Waste containers and implements shall be maintained in sanitary
   condition.

   2912.15. All waste shall be collected and removed in a safe and sanitary
   manner. If waste cans are used, they shall be made of metal or plastic, be
   leakproof, and be equipped with tight fitting lids. Leakproof, disposalable
   containers such as plastic bags or plastic-lined paper bags as liners in waste
   cans shall be used for disposal of animal tissues and carcasses.

   2912.16. Waste materials shall be removed regularly and frequently.

   2912.17. Used hypodermic needles, suture needles, catheter needles, and other
   needles shall be stored and disposed of in containers so as to prevent
   injuries to persons handling the trash.

   2912.18. Insects, rodents, and other pests shall be eliminated or effectively
   controlled.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 6630, 6636 (September 2, 1988).
