                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICE (ยง 17-2934)

2934.1. A notice, order, decision, or pleading required by this chapter to be
   served on a respondent shall be served on the respondent or representative
   designated by the respondent or by law to receive service of papers. If a
   respondent has appeared through counsel, service shall be made upon the
   counsel of record.

   2934.2. Service on a respondent shall be directed to the last known address of
   the respondent on file with the Director and shall be completed by one of the
   following methods:
   
   
   
   (a)	By personal delivery to the respondent;
   
   
   
   (b)	By delivery to the address of respondent, or respondent&#8217;s counsel or
   agent, on file with the Department, by leaving it at that address with a
   person of suitable discretion at least sixteen (16) years of age who is
   employed or resides at that address;
   
   
   
   (c)	By certified mail, return receipt requested; or
   
   
   
   (d)	If service is effected pursuant to an order of the Director, in the manner
   provided by that order.

   2934.3. Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom
   service is made and the manner and date of service, shall be shown by one of
   the following methods:
   
   
   
   (a)	If service was by personal delivery, the certificate of the server
   indicating that the document was accepted or refused;
   
   
   
   (b)	If service was by certified mail, the return receipt indicating that
   delivery was accepted, refused, or returned unclaimed; or
   
   
   
   (c)	If service was effected pursuant to an order of the Director, in the
   manner provided in that order.

   2934.4. If service is by personal delivery, it shall be deemed to have been
   served on the date and at the time shown certificate of service indicating
   that the document was accepted, refused.

   2934.5. If service is by certified mail, it shall be deemed to have been
   served on the date and at the time shown on the return receipt that the
   document was accepted, refused, or returned unclaimed.

   2934.6. If service is pursuant to an order of the Director, it shall be deemed
   to have been served on a date and at a time as provided in that order.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 6630, 6648 (September 2, 1988).
