                                  DC REGULATIONS

DENIALS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTION (§ 17-2930)

2930.1. Upon a finding that an applicant for or holder of a license engaged in
   conduct described in §2930.2, the Director may, after providing notice and an
   opportunity for a hearing pursuant to this chapter, take one or more of the
   following actions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Deny the issuance of a license;
   
   
   
   (b)	Suspend or revoke a license;
   
   
   
   (c)	Refuse to renew or reinstate a license or endorsement; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Impose a civil fine.

   2930.2. Grounds for suspension, revocation, refusal to renew, or deny a
   license include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Failure of the licensee to meet or maintain the standards required by, or
   other violation of, the Act or this chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Refusal to allow the Director access to the facility when necessary to
   carry out the purposes of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (c)	Willful submission by the licensee of false or misleading information to
   the Director in connection with an application for license or related to
   licensing procedures;
   
   
   
   (d)	Violation of the Act, this chapter, other District laws or rules, or
   federal laws or rules relating to the operation of the facility by the
   licensee.
   
   
   
   (e)	Failure of the licensee to allow inspections pursuant to this chapter;
   
   
   
   (f)	Failure to comply with the terms of a plan to correct deficiencies
   submitted to the Director or other agreement with the Director;
   
   
   
   (g)	Failure of the licensee to obey any lawful order of the Director pursuant
   to this chapter;
   
   
   
   (h)	Conviction of the licensee of a felony involving the management or
   operation of a facility or which is directly related to the integrity of the
   facility; or
   
   
   
   (i)	Suspension, revocation, or lapse of the veterinary license of the
   licensee.

   2930.3. The Director may suspend or refuse to renew the license of an animal
   facility if the licensee has failed to pay a civil fine imposed pursuant to
   the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs Civil Infractions Act of
   1985, D.C. Law 6-42, D.C. Code §§6-2701 to 6-2723 (1988 Repl. Vol.) within
   the time period required by the order of the Administrative Law Judge or
   required by chapter 11 of Title 1 D CMR.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 6630, 6645 (September 2, 1988).
