                                  DC REGULATIONS

EVIDENCE AT THE HEARING (ยง 17-2940)

2940.1. All testimony at a hearing before the Director shall be under oath or
   affirmation.

   2940.2. If any part of the record in any other proceeding previously held
   before the Director, or part of the record in any criminal or civil action,
   including hearings before any administrative agency, is offered in evidence, a
   certified true copy of that part shall be presented to the Board in the form
   of an exhibit, unless either of the following requirements is satisfied:
   
   
   
   (a)	The record is specified in such manner as to be readily identified, and
   the person offering the record agrees to supply copies later or when required
   by the Director; or
   
   
   
   (b)	There is a stipulation that the record may be incorporated by reference
   and the Director orders that incorporation.

   2940.3. The Director shall exclude irrelevant, immaterial, and unduly
   repetitious evidence.

   2940.4. The Director may take official notice, at the request of a party or on
   its own motion, of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The law and rules of the District of Columbia, the United States, and any
   state or other jurisdiction of the United States;
   
   
   
   (b)	Material facts in the official files of the Department or other District
   of Columbia or federal agency; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A fact which is not subject to reasonable dispute in that it is generally
   known within the District of Columbia or is capable of accurate and ready
   determination by resort to sources the accuracy of which cannot reasonably be
   questioned.

   2940.5. If the Director takes official notice of a material fact not appearing
   in the evidence in the record, a party shall be given an opportunity to show
   the contrary at the hearing or on motion made within five (5) days after the
   hearing.

   2940.6. The parties may, by stipulation in writing filed with the Director,
   agree on the facts or any portion thereof involved in a hearing. The parties
   may also stipulate the testimony that would be given by a witness if the
   witness were present. The Director, in the Director&#8217;s discretion, may
   require additional evidence concerning any matter covered by a stipulation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 6630, 6652 (September 2, 1988).
