                                  DC REGULATIONS

BILLING (§ 15-4407)

4407.1. Bills shall be rendered for the same billing period as that of the
   utility, generally monthly, unless the rental agreement or lease expressly
   provides otherwise.  Bills shall be calculated and rendered as promptly as
   possible following receipt by the owner of the bill from the utility, but no
   later than fourteen (14) days after receipt of the utility’s bill.  The
   submetering or energy allocation equipment shall be read within five (5)
   business days of the scheduled reading date of the utility’s master meter.

   4407.2. For submetering, the unit of measurement shall be the energy unit as
   defined in section 4499 (Definitions).  For energy allocation equipment, the
   units of measurement shall be those characteristics monitored by the
   allocation equipment.

   4407.3. The energy billed to any tenant shall constitute only the energy
   consumed within that nonresidential rental unit and so measured or monitored
   by the equipment.  The cost of energy used in owner-paid areas may be
   recovered by the owner only as provided in subsection 4407.12, and may not be
   billed to any tenant as part of the billings rendered pursuant to this chapter
   and may not be measured through the nonresidential rental unit submetering or
   energy allocation equipment.  Where permitted by tenant lease agreements,
   energy costs for usage consumed within the nonresidential rental unit, which
   are not allocated by energy allocation equipment, may be allocated by the
   owner among the various tenants in the same proportions as the leased space
   square footage.  These costs shall be listed separately from energy billings
   based on energy allocation equipment, and appropriately marked on the monthly
   tenant bills.

   4407.4. The owner shall render bills to the tenant in the same energy unit(s)
   as that billed to the owner by the utility.

   4407.5. The tenant’s bills shall be calculated in the following manner:
   
   
   
   	After the owner receives the electric or natural gas bill from the utility,
   the owner shall divide the “total current charges” by the total number of
   energy units billed by the utility to determine the average cost in cents per
   energy unit.  The average energy unit cost shall be multiplied by each
   tenant’s energy unit consumption to obtain the tenant’s monthly charges.

   4407.6. For the purposes of computing the average cost per energy unit, the
   “total current charges” shall include or exclude the following, as
   applicable:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Customer, demand, commodity, energy, transmission, and distribution charges;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Procurement cost adjustment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Purchased gas adjustment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Local taxes;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Surcharges; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Credits;
   
   
   
   (b)	Exclude:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Miscellaneous charges, such as charges by the utility for late payments.

   4407.7. The owner may impose a reasonable monthly service charge per
   nonresidential rental unit to offset the administrative cost of billing,
   reflecting the actual costs of materials and labor for preparing tenants’
   bills, in accordance with D.C. Official Code §§ 34-1552(b)(1) and 34-1553(d)
   (2010 Repl.).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	The tenant’s bill shall show all of the following information:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The date the bill was prepared;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The dates and readings of the submetering or energy allocation equipment at
   the beginning and at the end of the period for which the bill is rendered and
   the billing date;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The number of energy units consumed during the current billing period;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The average cost in cents per energy unit used in computing the bill;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The amount due for electricity or natural gas consumed within the
   nonresidential rental unit, the administrative service charge, if any, the
   balance forward, and the total amount due;
   
   
   
   
   
   The name or address, or both, of the tenant for whom the bill is applicable;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The name of the firm rendering the tenant’s bill and the name or title,
   address, and telephone number of the person(s) where payment can be made and,
   the name of the contact person in the case of any questions or disputes
   concerning the bill; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A precise statement that the bill is not from the utility providing the
   service to the nonresidential rental unit.

   4407.9. Bills shall be mailed or delivered to the tenant’s premises within
   five (5) business days after the billing date.

   4407.10. Estimated bills shall not be rendered unless the meter or energy
   allocation equipment has been tampered with, or is out of order, or where
   access cannot be attained, or where the property owner receives an estimated
   bill from the utility company and, in any such case, the bill shall be
   distinctly marked “estimated.” Such estimates shall be based upon one (1)
   of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Consumption over a similar billing period where the information of previous
   consumption is available;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The preceding billing period for a tenant that has resided on the premises for
   less than one (1) year and the consumption for a similar billing period is not
   available; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The average of the preceding two (2) billing periods, if available.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Adjustment to a tenant’s bill shall be made under any of the following
   
       	conditions:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any billing errors due to incorrect readings or improper billing calculations
   discovered by the owner on his or her own initiative or discovered as a result
   of an investigation because of a question or a dispute by a tenant;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If it is determined that a cross-metering situation exists.  The tenants
   involved will be rendered corrected bills to cover such period of time as the
   statute of limitations allows.  If a tenant has been underbilled, the tenant
   shall be allowed to make payment of the amount underbilled in equal monthly
   installments for as many months as the corrected bill covers, but for not more
   than ten (10) months, the entire amount underbilled being due upon termination
   of tenancy.  If a tenant has been overbilled and is due a credit, the tenant
   may request a cash refund, otherwise such credit shall be posted to the
   tenant’s account;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If the utility adjusts the owner’s bill; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   As detailed in section 4402 (Submetering).

   4407.12. Nothing contained in these rules shall prohibit the owner from
   recovery, in periodic lease payments, of the tenant’s fair share of
   electricity or natural gas costs attributable to owner-paid areas and costs
   incurred in establishing and maintaining the submetering system or energy
   allocation equipment.

   4407.13. Initial and final bills shall be rendered for the number of energy
   units actually consumed in the initial and final billing periods.

   4407.14. On the date possession is taken by a tenant of a nonresidential
   rental unit, an initial reading will be taken from the submetering or energy
   allocation equipment serving such nonresidential rental unit to commence
   service to that tenant.  The initial reading will be subtracted from the next
   reading of the equipment (taken on the regularly scheduled monthly reading
   dates on which other submetering or energy allocation equipment in the
   building is read) to determine the consumption during the initial billing
   period.  The energy units consumed as determined in the above manner will be
   multiplied by the average energy unit cost which is determined for the
   computation of bills for all other tenants for the period ending with the
   regularly scheduled reading date of that month.

   4407.15. On the date a tenant surrenders a nonresidential rental unit, a final
   reading will be taken from the submeter equipment serving such unit to
   terminate service to that tenant.  The reading of the equipment taken on the
   last previous regularly scheduled monthly reading dates on which other
   submetering or energy allocation equipment in the building was last read will
   be subtracted from the final reading to determine the consumption during the
   final billing period.  The energy units consumed or determined in the above
   manner will be multiplied by the average energy unit cost which is determined
   for the computation of bills for all other tenants for the regularly scheduled
   monthly reading date after the final reading.  If the owner and tenant so
   agree in writing, the owner may use the average energy unit cost from the
   previous month when determining the amount due for the last month of tenancy.

   4407.16. A late payment charge shall not be imposed on all amounts, including
   deferred payment installments, paid by the due date or on amounts in dispute
   before the Commission.  Amounts paid after the due date shall bear a late
   payment charge of one percent (1%) and an additional late payment charge at
   the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) on the remaining unpaid balance
   per billing month thereafter.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 9521, 9529 (November
   11, 2011).
