                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS (§ 15-4401)

4401.1. Any individual nonresidential rental unit may use submetering or
   energy allocation equipment provided the rental agreement or lease between the
   owner and the tenant clearly states that the nonresidential rental unit is or
   will be using submetering or energy allocation equipment.

   4401.2. All rental agreements or leases between the owner and the tenant shall
   clearly state:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The nonresidential rental unit uses submetering or energy allocation
   equipment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Bills for electric or natural gas consumption shall be rendered based on
   readings of such equipment; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any disputes relating to the amount of the tenant’s electric or natural gas
   bills and the accuracy of the equipment will be between the tenant and the
   owner.
   
   
   
   4401.3  	The owner shall not engage in submetering or energy allocation with a
   tenant without first securing from that tenant, a written agreement for the
   purchase of electricity or natural gas.  The agreement, which may be part of
   the tenant’s lease agreement, shall be executed before any electricity or
   natural gas is delivered.  The owner, upon establishing a submetering or
   energy allocation practice, agrees to supply any and all tenants with
   electricity or natural gas and shall be bound by such terms and conditions in
   acting upon agreements for electric service or natural gas service.
   
   
   
   4401.4 	Whether or not the parties have executed a written agreement for the
   purchase of electricity or natural gas, once the tenant enters into a lease as
   described in subsection 4401.3 and accepts electricity or natural gas service,
   such tenant agrees to be bound by the applicable regulations prescribed by the
   Commission for submetering or energy allocation equipment.  Likewise, the
   owner agrees to supply any and all such tenants with electricity or natural
   gas and shall be bound by such Commission regulations in acting upon
   agreements for electric service or natural gas service.

   4401.5. Any owner installing submetering or energy allocation equipment shall
   notify the Commission’s Office of Engineering in writing concerning the
   utility providing electric or natural gas service to the nonresidential rental
   units, at least ninety (90) days prior to installation, that the equipment
   will be installed and shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Give the name of the building;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Number of nonresidential rental units to be metered;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Building location, mailing address of the owner, and approximate date of the
   scheduled installation of the equipment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The type(s), manufacturer(s), and model number(s) of such equipment; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provide information used to establish the percentage registration as set forth
   in subsections 4402.2 (Section 4402, Submetering) and 4405.2 (Section 4405,
   Periodic Tests and Checks).

   4401.6. Upon completion of the installation of the submetering or energy
   allocation equipment, the owner of the building shall provide written
   notification to the Commission’s Office of Engineering within thirty (30)
   days.

   4401.7. Each owner shall be responsible for providing, installing, sealing (if
   necessary), and maintaining all submetering or energy allocation equipment
   necessary for the measurement or allocation of the costs for electric energy
   or natural gas consumed by tenants. The submetering equipment shall include,
   but not be limited to, the piping and wiring, as well as the meter and
   associated affiliate parts. The installation of submetering and energy
   allocation equipment shall comply with all building (including electric and
   natural gas) code requirements, as well as public and labor safety code
   requirements of the District of Columbia.

   4401.8. All submetering and energy allocation equipment shall be installed in
   locations readily accessible for reading, testing, and inspection, and where
   these activities will cause minimum interference and inconvenience to the
   tenant.

   4401.9. Any electric submeter installed shall be of a type and class to
   register properly the electric consumption of the nonresidential rental unit,
   and such meter shall meet the standards of the latest edition of the American
   National Standards Institute, Inc., Standard C12 &#8211; Code for Electricity
   Metering (ANSI C12).

   4401.10. Any natural gas submeter installed shall be of a type and class to
   register properly the natural gas consumption of the nonresidential rental
   unit, and such meter shall meet the standards of the latest edition of the
   American National Standard Institute Standards Accredited Standards Committee
   ANSI/ASC B109.1 and B109.2 for Diaphragm Type Gas Displacement Meters and
   ANSI/ASC B109.3 for Rotary Type Gas Displacement Meters (hereafter, ANSI B
   109); ANSI/American Petroleum Institute (API) 2530 (ANSI/API 2530 or American
   Gas Association Gas Measurement Report No. 3), entitled “Orifice Metering of
   Natural Gas and Other Related Hydrocarbon Fluids,” for Orifice Type Meters;
   ANSI/American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) MFC-4M (Measurement of
   Gas Flow by Turbine Meters) and American Gas Association Transmission
   Measurement Committee Report No. 7 (entitled “Measurement of Fuel Gas by
   Turbine Meters”) for Turbine Type Meters; and American Gas Association
   Transmission Measurement Committee Report No. 9 (entitled “Measurement of
   Gas by Multipath Ultrasonic Meters”) for Ultrasonic Type Meters; or other
   generally accepted industry practices.

   4401.11. Any energy allocation equipment installed shall be of a type and
   class appropriate to the heating, cooling, ventilation, and air conditioning
   system of the nonresidential rental unit and shall be used in accordance with
   generally accepted industry practices as well as the manufacturer’s
   installation specifications and procedures for such energy allocation
   equipment.

   4401.12. An owner shall not impose on the tenant any charges over and above
   the cost per kilowatt hour, cubic foot or therm, plus demand and customer
   charges, where applicable, which are charged by the utility company, the
   electricity supplier, and natural gas supplier to the building owner,
   operator, or manager, including any sales, local utility, or other taxes, if
   any; with the exception, that additional service charges permitted by sections
   4405 (Periodic Tests and Checks) and 4407(Billing) may be collected to pay
   administrative costs and billing.

   4401.13. An owner shall maintain adequate records regarding submetering and
   energy allocation equipment and shall make such records available for
   inspection by the Commission during reasonable business hours in accordance
   with D.C. Official Code § 34-1552(b)(2) and 34-1553(d) (2010 Repl.).

   4401.14. For the purpose of the enforcement of the rules set forth in this
   chapter, building owners shall be treated as public utilities for the purposes
   of initiating a complaint, in accordance with D.C. Official Code § 34-917
   (2010 Repl.).

   4401.15. Except as provided for in subsection 4401.14, no owner of a building
   shall be considered a public utility engaged in the business of distributing
   or reselling electricity or natural gas.

   4401.16. An owner’s submetering or energy allocation equipment and its
   installation shall not interfere, change, or modify in any way the electric or
   natural gas utility’s service connection or operation of the utility’s
   equipment, including the utility’s metering equipment.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 9521, 9522 (November
   11, 2011).
