                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 15-4499)

4499.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Building _ all of the individual units served through the same utility-owned
   meter within a property defined as Class 2 Property under D.C. Official Code
   § 47-813(c-6)(3) (2005 Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.).
   
   
   
   Building owner, operator, or manager or Owner &#8211; any person or entity
   responsible for the operation and management of a building.
   
   
   
   Commission &#8211; the Public Service Commission of the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Certified lab &#8211; a testing facility that includes a utility’s meter
   testing facility or a facility approved for use by any state regulatory
   utility commission.
   
   
   
   Electricity supplier &#8211; a person, including an aggregator, broker, or
   marketer, who generates electricity, sells electricity, or purchases, brokers,
   arranges or, markets electricity for sale to customers. The term excludes the
   following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Building owners, lessees, or managers who manage the internal distribution
   system serving such building and who supply electricity solely to occupants of
   the building for use by the occupants;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any person who purchases electricity for its own use or for the use of its
   subsidiaries or affiliates, or any apartment building or office building
   manager who aggregates electric service requirements for his or her building
   or buildings, and who does not  take title to electricity, market electric
   services to the individually-metered tenants of his or her building, or 
   engage in the resale of electric services to others;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Property owners who supply small amounts of power, at cost, as an
   accommodation to lessors or licensees of the property; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A consolidator.
   
   
   
   Energy allocation equipment &#8211; any device, other than submetering
   equipment, used to determine approximate electric or natural gas usage for any
   nonresidential rental unit within a building.
   
   
   
   Energy unit &#8211; the billing units for the energy delivered to the
   nonresidential rental unit—for example, kilowatt-hours, cubic feet, or
   therms.
   
   
   
   Master meter &#8211; a meter used to measure for billing purposes, all
   electric or natural gas usage of a building, including common areas, common
   facilities, and nonresidential rental units therein.
   
   
   
   Natural gas supplier &#8211; a person including an aggregator, broker, or
   marketer, who produces natural gas, sells natural gas. or purchases, brokers,
   arranges or, markets natural gas for sale to customers.  The term shall not
   include a person that supplies natural gas exclusively for its own consumption
   or the consumption of one (1) or more of its affiliates.  The term shall not
   include the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Building owners, lessees, or managers who manage the internal 	distribution
   system serving the building and who supply natural 	gas solely to occupants of
   the building for use by the occupants;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any person who purchases natural gas for its own use or for the 	use of its
   subsidiaries or affiliates, or any apartment building or 	office building
   manager who aggregates retail natural gas sales 	requirements for his or her
   building, and who does not take title to 	natural gas, market retail natural
   gas sales to the individually-	metered tenants of his or her building, or
   engage in the resale of 	natural gas to others;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Property owners who supply small amounts of natural gas, at cost, 	as an
   accommodation to lessors or licensees of the property; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A consolidator.
   
   
   
   Nonresidential rental unit &#8211; property leased for commercial purposes.
   
   
   
   Owner-paid areas &#8211; the portion of the real property for which the owner
   bears financial responsibility for energy costs, which portions include areas
   outside individual nonresidential units or in owner-occupied or shared areas.
   
   
   
   Submetering equipment &#8211; equipment used to measure actual electricity or
   natural gas usage in any nonresidential rental unit when the equipment is not
   owned or controlled by the electric or natural gas utility serving the
   building in which the nonresidential rental unit is located.
   
   
   
   Tenant &#8211; tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee, or occupant or occupants
   entitled to the possession, occupancy or benefits of a nonresidential rental
   unit.  The singular term tenant includes the plural.
   
   
   
   Utility &#8211; every street railroad, street railroad corporation, common
   carrier, gas plant, gas corporation, electric company, telephone corporation,
   telephone line, telegraph corporation, telegraph line, and pipeline company.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 9521, 9537 (November
   11, 2011).
