                                  DC REGULATIONS

THE RING (§ 19-2322)

2322.1. The ring in an event shall be at least sixteen feet (16’) square and
   at most twenty feet (20’) square within the ropes. The ring’s floor shall
   extend beyond the ropes at least twenty-four inches (24”). The ring shall be
   padded with felt, corrugated paper, matting, or other soft materials to a
   thickness of at least one and one-half inches (1½”). This padding shall
   extend at least one foot (1’) beyond the ring’s ropes with a top covering
   of canvas, duck, or similar material tightly stretched and laced into the
   ring’s platform. Material that tends to gather in lumps or ridges may not be
   used.

   2322.2. The ring shall not be more than four feet (4’) above the floor of
   the building or grounds of an outdoor arena and shall have steps for
   contestants. The ringposts shall not be more than four inches (4”) in
   diameter, extending from the floor of the building or from the ground to the
   ringpost height of fifty-eight inches (58”) above the ring’s floor and
   shall be wrapped in soft material.

   2322.3. The ring shall have four (4) ropes. Each rope shall be at least one
   inch (1”) in diameter. The lowest rope shall be thirteen inches (13”)
   above the ring’s floor; the second lowest rope shall be twenty-six inches
   (26”) above the ring’s floor; the third lowest rope shall be thirty-nine
   inches (39”) above the ring’s floor; and the highest rope shall be
   fifty-two inches (52”) above the floor. They shall be held together in the
   center on each side of the ring with a string extending from the top to the
   bottom rope. The ropes shall be wrapped in soft material.

   2322.4. The promoter shall provide a sufficient number of water buckets and
   siphon water bottles for the use of all contestants. The promoter shall also
   provide powdered precipitated calcium carbonate or resin for canvas, stools
   for seconds, and other articles needed for contests. Each bucket used by a
   contestant shall be washed and sterilized by the promoter before reuse.

   2322.5. The promoter shall provide a first aid stretcher which shall be kept
   under the ring’s platform at all contests, and ensure the availability of an
   ambulance on site during the event.

   2322.6. For the purpose of eliminating wet corners and the danger of slipping,
   the promoter shall provide a triangular piece of canvas in each contestant’s
   corner. The canvas shall extend from the ring’s ropes to at least four feet
   (4’) to the center of the ring. The canvas shall be affixed to the ring’s
   post and shall be spread between rounds and rolled back during rounds. The
   same two (2) corners shall be used for all contests in any one program.

   2322.7. The promoter shall provide a timekeeper’s gong, also referred to as
   the “bell”, which is at least ten inches (10”) in diameter and adjusted
   securely on a level with the ring platform.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking at 35 DCR 3759, 3768-69 (May 20, 1988).
