                                  DC REGULATIONS

DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES[COLON] ETHICAL CONDUCT (ยง 19-502)

502.1. No Director or employee shall use facilities or property owned or
   occupied by the Authority for any purpose other than the conduct of Authority
   business.

   502.2. No Director or employee shall make or solicit any contribution to any
   political candidate, political campaign organization, political party, or
   constituent services fund while the Director or employee is:
   
   
   
   (a)	In the discharge of his or her duties as a Director or employee of the
   Authority;
   
   
   
   (b)	In a facility of the Authority; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Using the resources of the Authority.

   502.3. No Director or employee shall use his or her official position to
   secure a financial gain, special privilege, exemption or other benefit for
   himself or herself, any member of his or her immediate family or household, or
   any business with which he or she is associated, other than the compensation
   provided by law for such Director or employee.

   502.4. No Director or employee shall solicit or receive anything of value,
   including a gift, favor, service, loan, gratuity, discount, hospitality,
   contribution, or promise of future employment, either personally or for
   another person or entity, based on any understanding that an official action,
   judgment or duty would be influenced thereby, or where it could reasonably be
   inferred that acceptance of the thing of value would influence the discharge
   of an official duty.

   502.5. No Director or employee shall receive any supplementation of salary
   from any private source for his or her services as a Director or employee.

   502.6. No Director or employee shall accept anything of value for or because
   of any official act, otherwise than as provided by law.

   502.7. Subsection 502.6 shall not prohibit a Director or employee from
   accepting an in- kind gift (i.e., a gift other than cash or liquid assets)
   having a market of less than $20.00, provided, that the aggregate value of
   individual in-kind gifts from any one source does not exceed $50.00 in any one
   calendar year.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 7140-41 (November 21, 1997).
