                                  DC REGULATIONS

DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES[COLON] CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (ยง 19-505)

505.1. Any Director who, in the discharge of an official duty, would be
   required to take any action or make any decision that would directly or
   indirectly affect his or her financial interests or the financial interests of
   a member of his or her household, or a business with which he or she is
   associated; or must take official action on a matter as to which he or she has
   a conflict situation created by a personal, family or client interest shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Prepare a written statement describing the matter requiring action or
   decision, and the nature of his or her potential conflict of interest with
   respect to such action or decision;
   
   
   
   (b)	Cause copies of the statement to be delivered to the District of Columbia
   Board of Elections and Ethics and to the Chairperson of the Board of Directors
   of the Authority (except that the Chairperson shall deliver the second copy of
   any such statement as he or she may make to the Vice Chairperson); and
   
   
   
   (c)	During the period when a conflict or potential conflict of interest is
   under investigation by the D.C. Board of Elections and Ethics, remove himself
   or herself from influence over actions and decisions on the matter on which
   there is a conflict or potential conflict of interest.

   505.2. Any employee who has conflict or a potential conflict of interest as
   set forth in ยง505.1 shall report the potential conflict to his or her
   superior, who shall reassign the matter to another employee who does not have
   a conflict or potential conflict, and to the Ethics Officer of the Authority.

   505.3. The employee shall remove himself or herself from influence over
   actions and decisions on the matter during the period when the Ethics Officer
   is investigating the conflict or potential conflict of interest.

   505.4. The Ethics Officer shall investigate each report of a conflict or
   potential conflict of interest submitted under ยง 505.2 and provide a written
   advisory opinion to the affected employee.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 7140, 7142 (November 21, 1997).
