                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE OF KNOWN OR SUSPECTED THIRD-PARTY LIABILITY (§ 29-1401)

1401.1. Any individual or institutional health-care provider that bills the
   District for health-care assistance furnished to a beneficiary shall provide
   the Department with written notice of any known or suspected third-party
   liability as soon as the health-care provider acquires knowledge of or
   suspects the existence of such liability.

   1401.2. The written notice shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The beneficiary’s name, address, social security number, and Medicaid
   recipient number, if any;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name, address, and telephone number of the other person(s) involved in
   the incident, if any; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of the incident causing the injury or illness, including the
   date and location.

   1401.3. A beneficiary, or if represented, the beneficiary’s attorney, shall
   provide the Department with written notice of any known or suspected
   third-party liability before taking any steps to recover damages or costs
   arising from an incident involving the third party.

   1401.4. The written notice shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The beneficiary’s name, address, social security number, and Medicaid
   recipient number, if any;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name, address, and telephone number of the beneficiary’s attorney,
   if any;
   
   
   
   (c)	The name, address, and telephone number of the third party;
   
   
   
   (d)	The name, address, and telephone number of the third party’s attorney,
   if known;
   
   
   
   (e)	The name, address, and telephone number of the third party’s insurer, if
   known;
   
   
   
   (f)	The name, address, and telephone number of beneficiary’s insurer, if
   known; and
   
   
   
   (g)	A description of the incident causing the injury or illness, including the
   date and location.

   1401.5. Upon receipt of a written notice of known or suspected liability of a
   third party pursuant to §§1401.1, 1401.2, 1401.3, and 1401.4, the Department
   shall immediately send a copy of the written notice to the Corporation
   Counsel, together with information concerning the dollar amount or monetary
   value of health-care assistance provided to or paid for on behalf of the
   beneficiary by the District.

   1401.6. If the beneficiary separately institutes a proceeding against or
   settlement negotiations with a third party, the beneficiary or if represented,
   the beneficiary’s attorney shall inform the third party that the District
   also has a claim, and shall give the Corporation Counsel written notice of the
   action or settlement negotiations, by personal service or certified mail,
   within twenty (20) calendar days.

   1401.7. If a court proceeding has been instituted, proof of timely notice
   shall be filed with the court.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1320 (March 7, 1986).
