                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 29-1499)

1499.1. As used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Beneficiary &#8211; any individual who has received health-care assistance
   from the District and, if applicable, that individual’s guardian,
   conservator, personal representative, estate, dependents, and survivors.
   
   
   
   Chore services &#8211; household tasks, essential shopping and other light
   work to enable recipients to remain in their own homes, provided that other
   identified needs of the recipient and of other household members are being
   met, and that the recipient is able to care for his or her personal needs and
   make his or her own decisions.
   
   
   
   Corporation Counsel &#8211; the Corporation Counsel of the District of
   Columbia.
   
   
   
   Department &#8211; the D.C. Department of Human Services.
   
   
   
   Health-care assistance &#8211; the health or health-related care and treatment
   that the District has undertaken to provide free-of-charge or a discounted
   rate, or to pay for through Medicaid or the Medical Charities Program, or any
   other program and includes future care and treatment that the Department
   reasonably anticipates will be provided or paid for by the District. The term
   “Health-care assistance” includes, but shall not limited to, medical,
   surgical, nursing, dental, hospital, nursing home, hospice and home care,
   prostheses and medical appliances, physical and occupational therapy,
   counseling and psychotherapy, social work, related transportation costs, and
   funeral and burial expenses.
   
   
   
   Homemaker services &#8211; any or all of the following services, depending on
   need: basic housekeeping and home management tasks, child care and
   supervision, as required by the disability of the primary caretaker or his or
   her temporary absence from the home because of hospitalization, incarceration,
   or any other temporary absence from the home; assistance with management of
   personal affairs; personal care services that do not require nursing.
   
   
   
   Third party &#8211; a third-party tortfeasor, beneficiary’s insurer, or any
   other individual, organization, or entity, that is or may be liable to a
   beneficiary, in tort or contract, for all or part of the care and treatment
   the District has undertaken to provide or pay for as health-care assistance.
   
   
   
   Unreimbursed value of health care assistance &#8211; the value or cost of the
   health and health-related care and services provided directly or through
   contract to the beneficiary by the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1320 (March 7, 1986); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 4705 (July 20, 1990).
