                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADVISORY OPINIONS (ยง 23-1902)

1902.1. Any person, group, licensee or business organization may make a
   written request to the Board for an advisory opinion when:
   
   
   
   (a)	The requestor is confronted with a situation involving the Act or this
   title which requires, or may require, him or her to take action; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The legality or propriety of the action to be taken is not clear from the
   plain text of the Act or this title.

   1902.2. Any request for an advisory opinion shall set forth sufficient
   information to allow the Board to understand the issues involved and to frame
   a response. The requestor shall also state which section of the Act or section
   of this title the requestor wishes the Board to interpret or clarify, with
   respect to the stated set of facts.

   1902.3. If the writer presents insufficient facts in any request for an
   advisory opinion, the Board may, in its discretion, issue a letter of
   information; engage in fact-finding through investigation or in a noncontested
   case hearing; request the writer to provide by letter more facts or details in
   support of his or her request; or decline to issue an advisory opinion.

   1902.4. The decision to issue an advisory opinion shall be solely in the
   discretion of the Board, and any decision by the Board not to issue such an
   opinion, shall not be subject to review by the Mayor or any court in the
   District of Columbia.

   1902.5. If issued, an advisory opinion is not binding upon the requestor but
   shall constitute guidance to the requestor as to how the Board may interpret
   the Act or this title on a particular matter, the facts of which are
   consistent with those raised by the requestor. Where the requestor is also a
   licensee, the Board may issue a show cause notice pursuant to ยง 1604 of this
   title in the instance where the facts raised by the requestor provide the
   Board with reasonable cause to believe that the requestor&#8217;s license
   should be fined, suspended, or revoked.

   1902.6. If the requestor disagrees with the Board&#8217;s advisory opinion in
   any respect, he or she may, within twenty (20) calendar days after issuance of
   the opinion, petition the Board in writing to reconsider its opinion, setting
   forth in detail the reasons and legal argument which support the
   requestor&#8217;s points of disagreement, or may request the Board to issue a
   declaratory order, pursuant to ยง 1903. Advisory opinions of the Board may not
   form the basis of an appeal to any court in the District of Columbia.

   1902.7. All advisory opinions of the Board determined to be in the public
   interest in accordance with D.C. Official Code ยง 2-508, shall be published in
   the D.C. Register and shall be available for public inspection and copying at
   a reasonable charge at the offices of the Board.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4309 (April 30, 2004); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12991 (December 26, 2008).
