                                  DC REGULATIONS

WATCHERS (§ 3-1107)

1107.1. Two (2) persons representing the proposer(s) of the recall measure and
   two (2) persons representing the elected officer sought to be recalled may be
   present to observe during the counting and validation procedures and shall be
   deemed watchers.

   1107.2. To secure the presence of watchers, the proposer(s) and the elected
   official sought to be recalled shall file a petition for credentials for
   watchers, within three (3) days from the date the recall petition is submitted
   for filing.

   1107.3. Each petition for credentials shall be on a form furnished by the
   Board and shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address, telephone number, and signature of the proposer(s) or
   the elected officer sought to be recalled;
   
   
   
   (b)	The names, address and telephone number of the persons authorized to
   represent the proposer(s) or the elected officer who are to receive the badges
   from the Board; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A certificate that each proposed watcher will conform to the regulations
   of the Board concerning watchers and the conduct of the counting and
   validation process.

   1107.4. The Board shall issue a badge for each authorized watcher, with space
   for the watcher’s name and the name of the proposer(s) or elected officer
   represented by the watcher.

   1107.5. Badges shall be worn by the authorized watcher at all times when
   observing the counting and validation process.

   1107.6. An authorized alternate watcher may, in the discretion of the
   proposer(s) or the elected officer, be substituted for a watcher at any time
   during the counting and validation process; provided, that notice is first
   given to the designated representative of the Board who is present.

   1107.7. No watcher shall at any time during the conduct of the counting and
   validation process do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Touch any official record of the Board; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Interfere with the progress of the counting and validation process or
   obstruct in any way the process.

   1107.8. If a watcher has any questions or claims any discrepancy, error, or
   inaccuracy in the conduct of the procedures, the watcher shall direct the
   question or complaint to the Board designee in charge.

   1107.9. Any watcher who, in the judgment of the Board or its designated
   representative, has failed to comply with any of the rules contained in §
   1107.7, may be requested to leave the area where the verification process is
   being conducted and the watcher’s credentials shall be deemed canceled.  An
   authorized alternate watcher may be substituted.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 D.C. Reg. 4419, 4430-31 (August 18,
   1995).
