                                  DC REGULATIONS

CIRCULATION OF PETITIONS (§ 3-1103)

1103.1. In order to circulate petitions pursuant to this chapter, a person
   shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be at least 18 years of age, and;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Either be a resident of the electoral jurisdiction of the elected official
   sought to be recalled or, if not a resident of the electoral jurisdiction of
   the elected official sought to be recalled, have registered as a non-resident
   petition circulator prior to circulating a petition in accordance with §§
   1103.2 and 1103.3.

   1103.2. Each petition circulator who is not a resident of the electoral
   jurisdiction of the elected official sought to be recalled shall, prior to
   circulating a petition under this chapter, complete and file with the Board a 
   Non-Resident Petition Circulator Registration Form in which he or she:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provides the name of (and office sought by) the candidate or ballot measure in
   support of which he or she will circulate the petition;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provides his or her name, residential address, telephone number,  and email
   address;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Acknowledges that he or she has received from the Board information regarding 
   the rules and regulations governing the applicable petition circulation
   process, and that he or she will adhere to such rules and regulations;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Consents to submit to the Board’s subpoena power and to the jurisdiction of
   the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the enforcement of Board
   subpoenas.

   1103.3. Each non-resident petition circulator shall present proof of residence
   to the Board at the time he or she files the Non-Resident Petition Circulator
   Registration Form.  Valid proof of residence is any official document showing
   the circulator’s name and residence address.  Acceptable forms of proof of
   residence include:
   
   
   
   (a)  	A copy of a current and valid government-issued photo identification;
   
   
   
   (b)  	A copy of a current utility bill, bank statement, government check,
   paycheck;
   
   
   
   (c)  	A copy of a government-issued document; or
   
   
   
   (d)  	A copy of any other official document, including leases or residential
   rental agreements, occupancy statements from homeless shelters, or tuition or
   housing bills from colleges or universities.

   1103.4. The proposer shall advise all circulators of the petition that
   pursuant to D.C. Official Code § 1-1001.14 (2011 Repl.), it is unlawful to do
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Tender any form of compensation to a qualified registered elector as
   consideration for his or her signature upon any recall petition; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Make any false statement to the Board concerning any recall petition or
   the signatures affixed thereto.

   1103.5. The proposer of a recall petition for all elected officers, other than
   member of an Advisory Neighborhood Commission, shall have one hundred and
   eighty (180) calendar days to secure the proper number of signatures and file
   the petition with the Board.

   1103.6. The proposer of a recall petition for a member of an Advisory
   Neighborhood Commission shall have sixty (60) calendar days to secure the
   proper number of signatures and file the petition with the Board.

   1103.7. The circulation period for a recall petition shall begin on the date
   upon which the proposer of the recall formally adopts the original petition
   sheet as his or her own pursuant to § 1101.4.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 4419, 4424 (August 18, 1995); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 4277 (May 14, 2010); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 5582 (April 12, 2013).
