                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE (ยง 9-3100)

3100.1. The holder of a note secured by a deed of trust, mortgage, or other
   security instrument (hereinafter, &#8220;holder&#8221;), or the agent of any
   such holder, shall at least thirty (30) days in advance of any sale of the
   real property encumbered by the deed of trust, mortgage, or security
   instrument under a power of sale provision contained therein, send to the
   owner of the real property, by certified mail, return receipt requested, a
   notice of the foreclosure sale on a form to be provided by the Mayor of the
   District of Columbia and to be available in the Office of the Recorder of
   Deeds.

   3100.2. The form of the notice of a foreclosure sale of real property shall
   provide for furnishing at least the following information concerning the sale:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the owner of record of the property, and his or
   her telephone number, if known;
   
   
   
   (b)	The identification of the property;
   
   
   
   (c)	The lot and square number or the parcel number of the property;
   
   
   
   (d)	The liber number and folio number of the volume in the Office of the
   Recorder of Deeds in which the security instrument is recorded and the date of
   such recordation;
   
   
   
   (e)	The name and last known address of the maker of the note secured by the
   security instrument, and his or her telephone number, if known;
   
   
   
   (f)	The name and address of the holder of the note and his or her telephone
   number of person to call if owner wishes to stop foreclosure; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Provision for a certification by the note holder or his or her agent that
   the original of the notice has been sent to the property owner by certified
   mail, return receipt requested, and that the note holder understands that no
   foreclosure sale may take place until at least thirty (30) days after a copy
   of the notice has been received by the Recorder of Deeds, D.C.

   3100.3. The holder of his or her agent shall, at least thirty (30) days in
   advance of any such sale, also send to the Recorder of Deeds two (2) copies of
   the notice of foreclosure sale given to the owner of the real property
   affected by the sale.

   3100.4. The Recorder of Deeds shall, upon receipt of the copies of the notice
   of foreclosure sale, indicate receipt of the notice on one (1) of the copies
   and return that copy to the holder or his or her agent. The fee for receiving
   and filing the notice, and acknowledging its receipt, shall be an amount as
   may from time to time be fixed by the Mayor.

   3100.5. Upon receipt of a copy of a notice of foreclosure sale, the Recorder
   of Deeds shall, if he or she deems it advisable, make a reasonable effort to
   ascertain from the owner of the property affected by the sale, or the agent of
   the owner, whether the owner has knowledge of the intended sale and the
   existence of the deed of trust, mortgage, or other security instrument
   containing the power of sale provision under the authority of which the
   property is to be sold.

   3100.6. In the event the Recorder of Deeds determines that the owner of the
   real property affected by the proposed foreclosure sale has not been informed
   concerning it, does not know of the existence of the deed or trust, mortgage,
   or other security instrument under which the foreclosure sale is to take
   place, or has a defense against the holder which would preclude him or her
   from forclosing on the property, the Recorder of Deeds shall advise the owner
   or his or her agent to seek legal assistance to resist the proposed sale.

   3100.7. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to authorize or
   require the Recorder of Deeds to counsel the owner of real property affected
   by a proposed foreclosure sale concerning the legal or other action to be
   taken by him or her, other than to advise the owner to seek legal assistance,
   if the circumstances of the case indicate such action should be taken by the
   owner.

   3100.8. The Recorder of Deeds is authorized to redelegate any of the functions
   required by this chapter to be performed.

   3100.9. No person shall knowingly include any false information in a notice of
   a foreclosure sale of real property, nor shall any person falsely certify that
   the original of any such notice was sent to the owner of the real property
   affected by the notice.

   3100.10. Any person violating ยง 3100.9 upon conviction shall be punished by a
   fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300), or imprisonment of not
   more that ten (10) days or both.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: Unless otherwise noted, the authority for this chapter is ยง 539
   of the Act of March 3, 1901, as amended by the Act approved October 12, 1968
   (P.L. 90-566), D.C. Code ยง 45-715 (1981 Ed.).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 68-25 approved November 1, 1968.
