                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 14-3699)

3699.1. For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall
   have the meaning ascribed:
   
   
   
   Applicant &#8211; an employee who is in good standing with the District of
   Columbia government and has been employed by the District for more than one
   (1) year.
   
   
   
   Cooperative &#8211; a cooperative legally incorporated pursuant to the
   District of Columbia Cooperative Association Act, D. C. Law 5-57 (D. C.
   Official Code §§ 29-901 et seq.), or a cooperative association incorporated
   in another jurisdiction for the primary purpose of owning and operating real
   property in which its members reside. A Cooperative shall also be a “tenant
   organization” as defined in D.C. Official Code § 42-3401.03(18) (2001),
   meaning an organization that represents at least a majority of the heads of
   household in the housing accommodation for at least ninety (90) days and those
   households in which any member has been an employee of the owner during the
   preceding one hundred twenty (120) days.
   
   
   
   Deferred Payment Loan &#8211; funds made available by the District to eligible
   participants in the Program to assist in the payment of the principal that is
   deferred until the property is sold, transferred, or otherwise ceases to be
   the principal residence of the participant.
   
   
   
   DHCD &#8211; the District of Columbia Department of Housing and Community
   Development.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the D.C. Department of Housing and Community
   Development.
   
   
   
   District of Columbia Government Employee &#8211; as defined in the District
   Personnel
   
   Manual (as may be amended from time to time).
   
   
   
   Downpayment Matching Funds &#8211; funds made available by the District to
   eligible participants in the Program or to assist the participants in saving
   towards a downpayment and closing costs for the first-time purchase of a
   housing unit that is to be used as the participant’s principal residence.
   
   
   
   First Mortgage Loan &#8211; a loan made to a household for purchase of a
   housing unit and secured by a first priority deed of trust on the property
   purchased, or on the loan recipient’s share or stock in a cooperative, if
   applicable.
   
   
   
   First-time Homebuyer &#8211; purchaser who has had no ownership interest in a
   principal residence in the District of Columbia at any time during the 3-year
   period ending on the date of the application for assistance, but includes an
   applicant who has divorced or separated during the 3-year period where a
   formal settlement did not convey an ownership interest in a principal
   residence which had been jointly owned.
   
   
   
   Household &#8211; all of the persons living in a housing unit.
   
   
   
   Housing Unit &#8211; any room or group of rooms forming a single-family
   residential unit, including but not limited to: a semi-detached condominium,
   cooperative, or semi- detached or detached home, that is used or intended to
   be used for living, sleeping, and the preparation and eating of meals by human
   occupants.
   
   
   
   Metropolitan Police Housing Assistance Program &#8211; the Program identified
   by D.C. Law 10-70, effective November 5, 1993, that established sliding scale
   property tax credits and income tax credits to police officers participating
   in the Employer-Assisted Housing Program.
   
   
   
   Monthly Carrying Charges (MCC) &#8211; the monthly costs charged to occupants
   of a cooperative to cover the unit’s share of the principal and interest
   payments, taxes, insurance and normal operating costs, including utilities,
   maintenance, management fees, vacancy reserve, and replacement reserve. The
   monthly carrying charges shall be approved by DHCD as reasonable and
   consistent with sound and common practices among other cooperative housing
   developments in the District prior to disbursement of Matching Funds or a
   loan.
   
   
   
   Police Officer &#8211; officers of all ranks employed by the District of
   Columbia Metropolitan Police Department.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 155, 161 (January 8,
   1993); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 799, 800
   (February 10, 1995).
