                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECORDS AND REPORTS (§ 20-500)

500.1. The Mayor may require any person engaged in operations which may
   pollute the air or the handling of products the use of which may result in air
   pollution to file with him or her written reports containing information
   concerning the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Location and description of the source;
   
   
   
   (b)	The chemical composition, physical properties, and the amount of any
   material used; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Any other information that the Mayor shall require for the enforcement of
   this subtitle.

   500.2. The owner or operator of a stationary source which emits twenty-five
   (25) tons or more per year of any air pollutant shall maintain written records
   of the nature and amount of emissions of the source. The records shall be made
   available to the Mayor during regular business hours, upon reasonable notice
   and shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Emission data from stationary source monitoring and measuring devices
   required by § 501; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The results of sampling of emissions, showing sampling methods and
   procedures used.

   500.3. Emission data secured as the result of this subtitle, or other
   provisions of law shall be available for public inspection during regular
   business hours or by appointment; Provided, that confidential handling of this
   data may be requested in accordance with § 106 of this subtitle.

   500.4. All parties in the gasoline distribution network, which includes
   refiners, importers, terminals, retailers, wholesale purchaser-consumers,
   carriers and distributors, shall generate and maintain, for a period not less
   than three (3) years, records detailing compliance with § 904.

   500.5. Records shall be made available for review by the Mayor, upon request,
   during normal business hours, or submitted to the Mayor for review upon
   request. These records shall include, as applicable, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The owner of the gasoline;
   
   
   
   (b)	The volume of gasoline;
   
   
   
   (c)	The identification and results of tests utilized to determine the
   percentage by weight of component oxygenates;
   
   
   
   (d)	The oxygen content by weight of the gasoline;
   
   
   
   (e)	The type of oxygenate and, when available, the percentage by volume;
   
   
   
   (f)	The results of any quality assurance tests performed;
   
   
   
   (g)	The name and address of the person(s) from whom the gasoline was
   purchased;
   
   
   
   (h)	The name and address of the person(s) to whom the gasoline was sold or
   transferred; and
   
   
   
   (i)	If applicable, the designation of the gasoline.

   500.6. Retailers shall comply with §§ 500.5(a) through (g) of this section.

   500.7. Each time gasoline is transferred as required under § 904, the
   transferor shall provide the transferee a transfer document, that is,
   manifest, invoice, bill of lading, copies of which shall be maintained by the
   transferee for a period of not less than three (3) years, and which shall
   contain the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The date of the transfer;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name and address of the transferor;
   
   
   
   (c)	The name and address of the transferee;
   
   
   
   (d)	The location of the gasoline at the time of the transfer if different from
   that required by paragraph (c) of this subsection;
   
   
   
   (e)	The volume of gasoline transferred;
   
   
   
   (f)	The oxygen content by weight of the gasoline transferred;
   
   
   
   (g)	A product certification statement that states one of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The oxygen content of all gasoline(s) listed contains two and seven tenths
   to two and nine tenths percent (2.7 to 2.9%) by weight with ethers; or
   
   
   
   (2)	The oxygen content of all gasoline(s) listed contains two and seven tenths
   to three and five tenths percents (2.7 &#8211; 3.5%) by weight with alcohols;
   and
   
   
   
   (h)	The destination of the gasoline.

   500.8. The owner or operator of a stationary source shall maintain the records
   required by this chapter for not less than three (3) years.

   500.9. The owner or operator of a stationary source which emits twenty-five
   (25) tons or more per year of oxides of nitrogen or volatile organic compounds
   shall submit to the Mayor a statement showing the actual emissions of oxides
   of nitrogen and volatile organic compounds from that source. The first
   emission statement shall be submitted no later than April 15, 1993, for the
   previous calendar year, with subsequent emission statements submitted at least
   every year thereafter. The emission statement shall contain, at a minimum, the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Certification that the information contained in the statement is accurate
   to the best knowledge of the individual certifying the statement. The
   certification shall include the full name, title, signature, date of
   signature, and the telephone number of the certifying individual;
   
   
   
   (b)	Source identification information:
   
   
   
   (1)	Full name, physical location, and mailing address of the facility;
   
   
   
   (2)	Latitude and longitude; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Standard Industrial Classification code(s)
   
   
   
   (c)	Operating information:
   
   
   
   (1)	Percentage annual throughput by season;
   
   
   
   (2)	Days per week on the normal operating schedule;
   
   
   
   (3)	Hours per day during the normal operating schedule; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Hours per year during the normal operating schedule;
   
   
   
   (d)	Process rate data:
   
   
   
   (1)	Annual process rate; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Peak ozone season daily process rate;
   
   
   
   (e)	Control equipment information:
   
   
   
   (1)	Current primary and secondary AFS control equipment identification codes;
   and
   
   
   
   (2)	Current control equipment efficiency. The actual efficiency shall reflect
   the total control efficiency from all control equipment and include downtime
   and maintenance degradation. If the actual control efficiency is unavailable,
   the design efficiency or the control efficiency limit imposed by a permit
   shall be used; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Emissions information:
   
   
   
   (1)	Estimated actual emissions of oxides of nitrogen and volatile organic
   compounds at the segment level in tons per year and pounds per typical ozone
   season day. Actual emission estimates shall include upsets, downtime and
   fugitive emissions, and shall follow an emission estimation method;
   
   
   
   (2)	AFS estimated emissions method code;
   
   
   
   (3)	Calendar year for the emissions; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Emission factor, if applicable.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: Unless otherwise noted, the authority for this chapter is § 412
   of the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization
   Act, as amended, 87 Stat. 790, Pub. L. No. 93-198, D.C. Code § 1-227(a); and
   § 3 of the District of Columbia Air Pollution Control Act of 1984, D.C. Law
   5-165, D.C. Code § 6-906 (1995 Repl. Vol.), Mayor&#8217;s Order 93-12 dated
   February 16, 1993.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Section 3 of the District of Columbia Air Pollution Control Act of
   1984, D.C. Law 5-165, § 500, 32 DCR 565, 602 (February 1, 1985); as amended
   by § 2 of the Air Pollution Control Act of 1984 National Ambient Air Quality
   Standards Attainment Amendment Act of 1993, D.C. Law 10-24, 40 DCR 5474, 5477
   (July 30, 1993).
