                                  DC REGULATIONS

IGNITION INTERLOCK PROVIDERS (ยง 18-312)

312.1. All ignition interlock providers must be certified by the Department in
   accordance with the requirements of this section.

   312.2. Providers shall be responsible for device installation, user training,
   service, and maintenance.

   312.3. All devices offered in the District shall meet the Model specifications
   for Breath Alcohol Ignition Interlock Devices from the National Highway
   Traffic Safety Administration, 57 FR 11772&#8211;11787 (1992).

   312.4. A provider shall certify that the devices for which certification is
   sought:
   
   
   
   (a)	Do not impede the safe operation of the vehicle;
   
   
   
   (b)	Minimize opportunities to bypass devices;
   
   
   
   (c)	Correlate accurately with established measure of blood alcohol levels;
   
   
   
   (d)	Work accurately and reliably in an unsupervised environment;
   
   
   
   (e)	Require a proper and accurate measure of blood alcohol levels;
   
   
   
   (f)	Resist tampering and provide evidence of attempted tampering;
   
   
   
   (g)	Are difficult to circumvent and require premeditation to circumvent;
   
   
   
   (h)	Minimize inconvenience to a sober user;
   
   
   
   (i)	Are manufactured by a party responsible for installation, user training,
   service, and maintenance;
   
   
   
   (j)	Operate reliably over the range of motor vehicle environments or motor
   vehicle manufacturing standards;
   
   
   
   (k)	Are manufactured by a party adequately insured for product liability;
   
   
   
   (l)	Provide the option for an electronic log of the driver&#8217;s experience
   with the device; and
   
   
   
   (m)	Meet the requirements for certification set forth in the specifications
   for the devices.

   312.5. An application for certification shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the provider;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name and model number of each type of device to be used by the
   provider;
   
   
   
   (c)	A detailed description of each device including instructions for its
   installation and operation;
   
   
   
   (d)	Technical specifications descriptive of each device&#8217;s accuracy,
   security, data collection and recording, tamper detection, and environmental
   features;
   
   
   
   (e)	A description of the provider&#8217;s present or planned provisions for
   distribution of the device in the District, including all locations where the
   device may be purchased, installed, serviced, repaired, calibrated, inspected,
   and monitored;
   
   
   
   (f)	A certificate from an insurance company licensed in the District
   evidencing that the provider holds product liability insurance; and
   
   
   
   (g)	A certified copy of the drawings, schematics, and wiring protocols for
   each device and its components, to be treated by the District as confidential
   commercial information not subject to public disclosure.

   312.6. The ignition interlock device shall correlate with an alcohol
   concentration recommended in the specifications contained in 57 FR 11772-11787
   (1992), with the accuracy provided for in the specifications, but may not be
   higher than 0.025 percent.

   312.7. A correlation coefficient of 0.90 is considered reliable. Ninety times
   out of 100, the ignition interlock device shall respond to, detect, and
   interlock when an individual has an alcohol concentration of 0.025 percent or
   higher.

   312.8. In the event of a customer complaint, the provider shall correct any
   error in operation or misuse with additional instructions, or exchange the
   device with another in the event of a component failure, within 48 hours of
   notification of the complaint.

   312.9. Breath test devices shall use breath specimens that are alveolar air
   samples (&#8220;deep lung air&#8221;) in accordance with established forensic
   alcohol standards meeting the specifications contained in 57 FR
   11772&#8211;11787 (1992).

   312.10. The ignition interlock device shall be calibrated for proper use and
   accuracy semiannually, or more frequently as the circumstances may require.

   312.11. The device, the installation of the device, and the monitoring of the
   device, including the transmission of data to the Department, shall provide
   for the security features set forth in the specifications in 57 FR
   11772&#8211;11787 (1992).

   312.12. The device shall be resistant to environmental conditions including
   shock and vibration as normally found in a motor vehicle and shall operate
   accurately over a temperature range of &#8211;20 to 100 degrees (F) and an
   altitude range between 0 to 2,500 feet.

   312.13. The device shall have the following design features:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be designed to permit a restart (grace period) of a vehicle&#8217;s
   ignition within 120 seconds after the ignition has been shut off, without
   requiring a further test;
   
   
   
   (b)	Automatically purge residual alcohol before allowing subsequent tests;
   
   
   
   (c)	Be required to be stowed out of the way before starting the vehicle;
   
   
   
   (d)	Be designed so that a second breath test is performed once a vehicle has
   been underway for at least 5 minutes but not more than 30 minutes;
   
   
   
   (e)	Cause the vehicle to stop functioning and signal, by activating horns
   and/or lights, when the device is activated while vehicle has been underway;
   and
   
   
   
   (f)	Have an onboard datalogger, which shall be:
   
   
   
   (1)	Capable of being downloaded in an installation facility or in the field
   through mobile means;
   
   
   
   (2)	Encrypted with the software programs allowing access to the data stored in
   the device; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Kept secure and protected from public access.

   312.14. The provider shall carry product liability insurance with minimum
   liability limits of 1 million dollars ($ 1,000,000) per occurrence, with 3
   million dollars ($ 3,000,000) aggregate total. The liability covered shall
   include defects in product design and materials as well as in the work of
   manufacture, calibration, installation, and removal of devices. The proof of
   insurance shall include a statement from the insurance company that 30
   days&#8217; notice will be given to the Department before cancellation of the
   insurance.

   312.15. The provider shall submit to the Department a statement that the
   provider is entirely responsible for product liability and shall defend and
   indemnify the District and the testing laboratory that has verified that the
   device meets the Department&#8217;s standards and requirements.

   312.16. A provider is responsible for ensuring that proper installation
   procedures are adhered to, including, but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Devices shall be installed within a building or from a mobile unit fully
   equipped for adequate installation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Customers or other unauthorized persons must not be allowed to witness the
   installation of the device;
   
   
   
   (c)	Each provider shall develop detailed and written instructions for
   installation of its device in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the
   Department;
   
   
   
   (d)	The installer shall screen the vehicle for acceptable mechanical and
   electrical conditions, in accordance with the provider&#8217;s instructions;
   
   
   
   (e)	Conditions that would interfere with the function of the device (for
   example, low battery or alternator voltage, stalling frequently enough to
   require additional breath tests, etc.) shall be corrected to an acceptable
   level;
   
   
   
   (f)	Installations shall be made in a workmanlike manner in accordance with
   accepted trade standards, and according to the instructions provided by the
   manufacturer;
   
   
   
   (g)	After a device is installed, the vehicle shall be checked to see that the
   installation was performed properly and that it does not interfere with the
   normal operation of the vehicle after it has been started;
   
   
   
   (h)	 Each installation shall include all of the tamper resistant features
   required by the provider and the Department;
   
   
   
   (i)	The provider shall be responsible for ensuring physical anti-tamper
   securities, which include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   (1)	A unique and easily identifiable wire, covering, or sheathing over all
   wires used to install the device, which are not inside a secured enclosure;
   
   
   
   (2)	A unique and easily identifiable covering, seal, epoxy, or resin at all
   exposed electrical connections for the device;
   
   
   
   (3)	Connections to the vehicle, which shall be under the dash or in an
   inconspicuous area of the vehicle;
   
   
   
   (4)	A unique and easily identifiable tamper seal, epoxy, or resin at all
   openings (except the breath and exhaust ports) of the hand-held unit, control,
   and support units; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Depending on the level of electronic anti-tampering security of a device,
   additional anti-tamper measures, such as the use of a special mark, seal,
   paint, epoxy, resin, or other material to mark points likely to be accessed
   when attempting to bypass or tamper with the device (for example, battery post
   terminals, wire to started solenoid, wire to ignition, dash screws).
   
   
   
   (j)	The provider is responsible for ensuring electronic anti-tampering
   securities including, but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The device shall detect when the vehicle has been started without a breath
   test being passed, and shall either display the tamper or record it, or both,
   in a way that allows for the retrieval of information at a later date;
   
   
   
   (2)	The device shall retain its tamper detection capabilities when
   disconnected from the vehicle&#8217;s power supply, or record that it was
   disconnected. Devices that lose their memory of tamper events when
   disconnected from a power source shall have an indicator or interrupt device;
   
   
   
   (3)	The device shall continuously record the time and date for each of the
   following vehicle and device operations:
   
   
   
   (i)	Breath test fail;
   
   
   
   (ii)	Breath test pass;
   
   
   
   (iii)	Alcohol level of breath test; and
   
   
   
   (iv)	Any attempt to tamper with the device.
   
   
   
   (4)	When a device detects a condition that would be considered tampering, the
   device shall activate an indicator or interrupt device.

   312.17. At the time of device installation, the device shall be checked to
   make sure that it is functioning properly and accurately. Self-diagnostic
   features shall also be checked.

   312.18. Tamper inspections shall be conducted any time that the device is
   given routine inspection, maintenance, or repair by the provider. Tamper
   inspections shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Inspect all external wiring insulation, connection, and sheathing for the
   device and where the device connects to the vehicle;
   
   
   
   (b)	Record or document any electronic indications of tampering;
   
   
   
   (c)	Inspect all tamper seals for breaks, tears, or other evidence of
   tampering. Document and photograph any evidence of tampering;
   
   
   
   (d)	Check device for proper operation to ensure tamper detection capabilities;

   312.19. The Department or its designees shall have the right to inspect
   installation and servicing of the devices.

   312.20. The provider shall provide the customer with the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Written instructions on how to clean and care for the device;
   
   
   
   (b)	Written instructions on what type of vehicle malfunctions or repairs may
   affect the device, and what to do when such repairs are necessary;
   
   
   
   (c)	Written notice about how the device may be affected by high altitudes;
   
   
   
   (d)	Written and hands-on training on how to use the device. This shall include
   all persons authorized to use the vehicle that has had the device installed;
   and
   
   
   
   (e)	An adequate supply of disposable mouthpieces with saliva traps.

   312.21. The provider shall provide an emergency 24-hour phone number that a
   driver may use to receive assistance. Assistance may include technical
   information, tow service, or road service. Emergency assistance related to the
   failure of a device shall be provided within 24 hours for vehicles located in
   or near an area with an installation repair facility. The device shall be made
   functional within 48 hours from when the call for assistance is made.

   312.22. Providers shall ensure the following with respect to personnel who
   install, calibrate, perform tamper inspections, or perform reporting duties,
   or all of these:
   
   
   
   (a)	Personnel shall have the training and skill necessary to install,
   troubleshoot, and check for proper operation of the device, and to screen the
   vehicle for acceptable conditions;
   
   
   
   (b)	Personnel may not have been convicted of a crime substantially related to
   the qualifications, functions, and duties related to the installation and
   inspection of the devices. This may include, but is not limited to, the
   following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Convictions for any alcohol or drug-related offense within the last three
   (3) years;
   
   
   
   (2)	Convictions of more than one (1) alcohol or drug-related offense overall;
   
   
   
   (3)	Convictions of probation violation;
   
   
   
   (4)	Conviction for perjury; or
   
   
   
   (5)	License suspension or revocation for a violation of motor vehicle safety
   laws.

   312.23. Persons who can show acceptable evidence of rehabilitation may be
   considered for the positions in ยง 312.22.

   312.24. A device must be tested prior to certification.

   312.25. Facilities, which may include mobile or satellite units, where
   interlock devices are installed, serviced, monitored, or removed shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be in an area where customers are not allowed to watch the installation,
   calibration, or removal of a device;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be open during normal business hours with after hours service capability;
   
   
   
   (c)	Be established to service the geographical location and volume of
   individuals who qualify for and are admitted into the program;
   
   
   
   (d)	Have records maintained for 5 years; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Have and use the required tools, test equipment, and manuals needed to
   screen vehicles for acceptable mechanical and electrical conditions to install
   devices.

   312.26. The tools, test equipment, and manuals required under ยง 312.25 (e)
   include, but are not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Tools necessary to ensure electrical connections are made in a workmanlike
   manner in accordance with accepted trade standards (for example, properly
   soldered or mechanically crimped with high quality connectors);
   
   
   
   (b)	Heat gun if heat shrink tubing or heat set labels are used;
   
   
   
   (c)	Volt/ohmmeter;
   
   
   
   (d)	Test light;
   
   
   
   (e)	Battery testing equipment and servicing tools (for example, load tester,
   terminal cleaning tools, battery filler, etc.); and
   
   
   
   (f)	Electrical wiring diagrams or reference guide, or both, for electrical
   systems on import and domestic vehicles, 20 years old or less, necessary for
   the installation and operation of the device.

   312.27. Testing shall be performed under the specifications set forth in 57 FR
   11772&#8211;11787 (1992) by an entity approved by the Department for the
   purpose of establishing the accuracy and reliability of candidate devices.
   
   
   
   312.28 	The provider must submit to the Department a notarized letter,
   affidavit, or both, from a Department-approved testing laboratory certifying
   that the device by model, class, or both, meets or exceeds all requirements
   set forth in 57 FR 11772&#8211;11787 (1992). The affidavit shall also include:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address, and phone number of the testing laboratory;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the tests performed;
   
   
   
   (c)	Copies of the date and results of the testing procedures; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The names and qualifications of the individuals performing the tests.

   312.29. The provider shall submit to the Department:
   
   
   
   (a)	Annually, a certified statement that the manufacturing of the model or
   type of device originally certified has not been modified or altered in any
   way to require laboratory retesting.
   
   
   
   (b)	Annually, a summary of all complaints received and corrective actions
   taken by the provider for each mode or type of certified device;
   
   
   
   (c)	Semiannually, a report that the devices were checked for proper use and
   accuracy, detailing any necessary adjustments;
   
   
   
   (d)	A report on any device denied certification in another state, whether the
   denial of certification occurs before or after certification by the
   Department; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Any other available information upon request.

   312.30. The reports required under ยง 312.29 shall be categorized by:
   
   
   
   (a)	Customer error of operation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Faulty automotive equipment other than the device;
   
   
   
   (c)	Apparent misuse or attempts to circumvent the device causing damage; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Device failure due to material defect, design defect, or workmanship
   errors in construction, installation, or calibration.

   312.31. A denial of certification for an ignition interlock model in another
   state may be cause for de-certification or denial of certification for the
   same model in the District.

   312.32. All costs of obtaining certification of an ignition interlock device
   shall be borne by the provider.

   312.33. When notified in writing by the Department, the approved provider
   shall remove the device and return the vehicle to normal operating condition.
   All severed wires shall be permanently reconnected and insulated with heat
   shrink tubing or its equivalent.

   312.34. Whenever a device is removed for repair and cannot immediately be
   reinstalled, a substitute device shall be used.

   312.35. The Department may revoke approval of a device, and remove it from the
   list of acceptable devices, upon any of the following grounds:
   
   
   
   (a)	Evidence of repeated failures due to gross defects in design, materials,
   or workmanship during manufacture;
   
   
   
   (b)	Termination of provider&#8217;s liability insurance;
   
   
   
   (c)	Notification that the provider is no longer in business;
   
   
   
   (d)	Voluntary request of provider;
   
   
   
   (e)	Any findings that the provider is not in compliance with the provisions of
   this chapter; or
   
   
   
   (f)	A reasonable belief that the device was inaccurately represented to meet
   the performance standards.

   312.36. The effective date of revocation shall be 15 days after notification
   is sent to the provider via first class mail, except in cases where the
   Department determines immediate revocation is necessary for the safety and
   welfare of the public.

   312.37. Within 15 days of revocation, providers may request, in writing,
   review of revocation.

   312.38. Upon revocation or voluntary surrender of an approval, a provider
   shall be responsible for removal of all like devices from customers&#8217;
   vehicles.

   312.39. A provider shall be responsible for any costs connected with removal
   of its revoked devices from customers&#8217; vehicles and the installation of
   new devices from the Department&#8217;s list of approved devices.

   312.40. A provider must allocate 2% of its monthly gross leasing revenue in a
   fund for indigents, to be made available for indigents applying to the
   program.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking at 53 DCR 7222(September 1, 2006).
