                                  DC REGULATIONS

IGNITION INTERLOCK PROGRAM – ESTABLISHMENT, APPLICATION PROCESS AND
PARTICIPATION COMPLIANCE (§ 18-311)

311.1. There is established an ignition interlock program to allow for a
   discretionary one-year reduction of the revocation periods imposed by §§
   306.6 and 306.7 of this Title on repeat offenders of driving under the
   influence laws.

   311.2. For the purposes of this section, the terms certified ignition
   interlock device and certified provider mean such devices and providers as are
   certified by the Department pursuant to § 312 of this Title.

   311.3. A repeat offender may apply for participation in the ignition interlock
   program after the expiration of at least one (1) year of the revocation period
   if revoked under § 306.6 or two (2) years if revoked under 306.7.

   311.4. No person may be accepted into the ignition interlock program if he or
   she has:
   
   
   
   (a)	A prior conviction for causing injury or death while operating a motor
   vehicle in any jurisdiction; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Previously participated in this program or any similar program in another
   jurisdiction five (5) years prior to the date of the application.

   311.5. In addition to any other information required by the Director, the
   applicant shall identify the make, model, and registration number of all
   vehicles the applicant will be using during program participation, and with
   respect to each such vehicle provide:
   
   
   
   (a)	A copy of the title and registration issued by the Department and, if
   leased, a valid lease agreement;
   
   
   
   (b)	The names, addresses, and social security numbers of all persons
   authorized to use the vehicles;
   
   
   
   (c)	The name and address of the registered owners other than lessors and the
   applicant;
   
   
   
   (d)	A release form approved by the Director and signed by all persons
   identified in response to (c), authorizing the revocation of their
   vehicle&#8217;s registration should the applicant withdraw or be terminated
   from the program;
   
   
   
   (e)	The name and address of the certified ignition interlock provider that
   installed the device and, if different, the name and address of the authorized
   service center where the vehicle will be brought pursuant to § 311.8; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Written verification from the certified ignition interlock provider that a
   certified ignition interlock device has been installed and that the applicant
   and all persons identified in (b) have received training in the use of the
   device.

   311.6. The decision of the Director to deny an application is not subject to a
   hearing or other administrative review.

   311.7. If the Director, in his or her discretion, grants the application, the
   applicant, upon satisfaction of all other prerequisites and the payment of the
   applicable fees, will receive a restricted license. The license restrictions
   will prohibit him or her from driving any vehicle other than those identified
   in the application and only if the vehicles remain equipped with properly
   functioning ignition interlock devices. The Director may impose such other
   conditions as he or she deems appropriate. The restriction and conditions
   shall remain in place for one year, unless extended pursuant to § 311.18.

   311.8. No later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the application
   was granted, and every thirty (30) days thereafter, the vehicle(s) identified
   in the application shall be brought to the service center identified in the
   application for servicing to include downloading of information from the
   device. If the service center is closed on the date on which service is
   required, the vehicle shall be brought for service on the next business day.

   311.9. The Director, in his or her discretion, may grant a one-time exemption
   to the servicing requirement established in § 311.8 upon a written request
   and for good cause shown.

   311.10. The Director shall suspend the registration of any vehicle not
   serviced within five (5) days after a servicing date, until the participant
   proves compliance with § 311.8. The Director may terminate the participant
   from the program if the vehicle is not serviced within ten (10) days after the
   servicing date.

   311.11. A participant shall only operate a vehicle identified in the
   application and only if the vehicle remains equipped with a properly
   functioning device, approved for use under this program.

   311.12. A participant shall abide by the terms and conditions of the service
   agreement with the ignition interlock service provider, including the payment
   of all costs and fees associated with the program.

   311.13. A participant shall not tamper with, bypass, or otherwise remove or
   render the device inoperable, or allow another person to tamper with, bypass,
   or otherwise remove or render the device inoperable.

   311.14. A participant shall not allow any other individual to blow into the
   device, unless that individual will be operating the vehicle.

   311.15. A participant may be terminated from the program for any violation of
   §§ 311.11 through 311.14

   311.16. A participant shall be presumed to be the person whose blood alcohol
   level was detected by a device installed in a vehicle identified on their
   application.

   311.17. A participant shall be presumed to have operated, or to have attempted
   to operate their designated vehicle whenever the installed device detects a
   level of alcohol in their blood.

   311.18. Except as provided in 311.19, a participant who operates or attempts
   to operate a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol level of .025 or greater
   shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Receive an additional six (6) month license restriction for the first
   violation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Receive an additional one (1) year license restriction period for the
   second violation; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Be terminated from the program for the third violation.

   311.19. A participant who operates or attempts to operate a motor vehicle with
   a blood alcohol of .08 percent or greater shall be terminated from the
   program.

   311.20. Prior to termination from the program or the imposition of any
   penalties pursuant to § 311.18, the participant shall be given notice and an
   opportunity for a hearing. Hearings shall be limited to the issue of whether
   or not the offense was committed.

   311.21. The Director shall revoke the driver&#8217;s license of a person who
   voluntarily ends their participation in the program or is terminated from the
   program. The license revocation period shall be one (1) year.

   311.22. The Director shall revoke the registration of all vehicles identified
   in the application of a program participant who withdraws from or is
   terminated from the program for a one-year period.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 7218 (September 1, 2006).
