                                  DC REGULATIONS

LIMITED OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES (§ 18-310)

310.1. Except as provided in § 310.7, a person whose regular driver&#8217;s
   license, as described in § 1312.1 (a), is revoked, suspended or canceled may
   request, in writing, that the order be modified to allow the issuance or
   retention of a driver&#8217;s license or privilege on a limited basis.  An
   examiner shall not grant the application unless the applicant demonstrates
   that the suspension or revocation imposes an extreme hardship for which there
   is no practical remedy and, in the judgment of the examiner, the safety of the
   public will not be impaired. The determination shall be based solely upon the
   written application.

   310.2. In order to show extreme hardship, the applicant for an occupational
   license must show to the satisfaction of the examiner that loss of operating
   privileges precludes carrying out the applicant’s normal business, trade or
   occupation, and that driving is necessary to support the applicant and his or
   her family.

   310.3. In considering whether a limited license can be issued in the interest
   of the public safety and welfare, the examiner shall determine the general
   good character of the applicant, the number and seriousness of the violations
   on the applicant’s traffic record, the period of time over which the
   violations were accumulated, the number and seriousness of violations
   committed by the applicant during the hours or in the area, or both, for which
   applicant desires the license, the ease or difficulty of enforcement of the
   conditions and limitations of the license, and the probable impact, so far as
   the examiner can determine, of the limitation on the future driving conduct of
   the applicant.

   310.4. The applicant may prove his or her general good character by submitting
   with the application letters of recommendation from responsible business
   people, the employer of the applicant, law enforcement officers, judicial
   officials, or other credible persons.

   310.5. If the applicant operates a commercial vehicle as a livelihood, the
   application shall be accompanied by a written request from the applicant’s
   employer that the license be issued.

   310.6. When an occupational license is issued, the period of suspension or
   revocation may be increased over that of the original suspension or revocation
   period to the extent that, in the judgment of the examiner, the increase is
   justified to carry out the intent under this title of protecting the public
   interest in safe driving and of improving the driving habits of applicants for
   licenses.

   310.7. No occupational license shall be issued to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Applicants whose licenses are revoked for an offense for which revocation
   is made mandatory by law;
   
   
   
   (b)	Applicants whose licenses are revoked for physical or mental reasons;
   
   
   
   (c)	Applicants whose licenses are revoked as a result of a conviction for
   operating after suspension or revocation;
   
   
   
   (d)	Applicants who have accumulated sixteen (16) points on their driving
   record; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Applicants who received an occupational license within the preceding two
   (2) years.
   
   
   
   (f) 	A person who holds a commercial driver’s license, or
   
   
   
   (g)	A person who has been disqualified from operating a commercial vehicle
   pursuant to § 1306.

   310.8. A limited license may be issued with restrictions that will permit
   business use only, daylight hours only, driving to and from work, or any other
   limited use which, in the opinion of the hearing examiner is appropriate in
   carrying out the purpose of this section.

   310.9. An occupational license shall be expressly conditioned on the
   licensee’s compliance with all traffic laws and rules. Any violation, other
   than parking infractions, shall result in the immediate revocation of the
   occupational license and the doubling of the applicable period of suspension
   of revocation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 72-13 effective June 30, 1972, 32 DCRR § 270.8,
   Special Edition; DC Law 13-289, 48 DCR 2057 (March 9, 2001); as amended by
   Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 8595 (October 30, 2009).
