                                  DC REGULATIONS

CERTIFICATION OF JOINT VENTURES (ยง 27-701)

701.1. The Commission shall determine the eligibility of a joint venture for
   certification on a contract-by-contract basis.

   701.2. The Commission may certify joint ventures involving a MBE where such an
   agreement will contribute to minority business development and will permit the
   offering of a proposal on a specific contract where a MBE by itself lacks the
   necessary capacity to fulfill the requirements of the proposed contract, due
   to factors including, but not limited to, an inability to secure adequate
   bonding or an inability to obtain financial or technical resources.

   701.3. The MBE participating in the joint venture shall represent not less
   than fifty percent (50%) each of the management aspect, control aspect, and
   ownership aspect of the joint venture, provided that where certification of
   the joint venture will further the MBE, the Commission may waive any or all of
   these requirements.

   701.4. A joint venture shall not be certified under this section unless the
   participating MBE has been individually certified in accordance with the
   provisions of the Act and the requirements of chapters 6 and 7 of this title.

   701.5. Individual certification of a MBE participating in a joint venture
   shall not automatically qualify the joint venture for certification.

   701.6. If a MBE has not been certified by the Commission prior to its
   participation in a joint venture, the applications for individual
   certification of the MBE and of the joint venture may be submitted to and
   reviewed by the Commission simultaneously.

   701.7. Every joint venture agreement shall include provisions which do the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Specify the purpose of the joint venture;
   
   
   
   (b)	Identify parties to the joint venture and define their respective
   obligations and responsibilities;
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide that not less than fifty percent (50%) of the net operating
   profits after taxes earned by the joint venture will be distributed to the
   minority business enterprise;
   
   
   
   (d)	Provide for the establishment and administration of a special separate
   bank account in the name of the joint venture into which all funds received
   will be deposited and through which all expenses will be paid, and which
   requires all withdrawals and deposits to be signed by all members of the joint
   venture management committee;
   
   
   
   (e)	Contain an itemized description of all major equipment, facilities, and
   other resources to be furnished by each venturer with a detailed schedule of
   costs; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Specify the responsibilities of the parties in at least the areas of
   subcontract negotiation and contract and subcontract performance.

   701.8. The Commission may deny certification of any joint venture whose joint
   venture agreement lacks any of the provisions stipulated in ยง701.7.

   701.9. The joint venture shall make its records available to the Commission at
   any time deemed necessary by the Commission.

   701.10. The joint venture shall submit to the Commission quarterly financial
   statements showing cumulative contract receipts and expenditures (including
   salaries of the joint venture principals) no later than forty-five (45) days
   after the end of each operating quarter.

   701.11. The joint venture shall submit to the Commission a project-end profit
   and loss statement no later than ninety (90) days after completion of the
   contract with a statement of final profit distribution.

   701.12. The Commission may revoke certification if it determines that
   incorrect data was submitted to the Commission in the application or
   supporting documents.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 26 DCR 2771, 2781 (December 21, 1979);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 5664 (September 12, 1986).
