                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPLIANCE REVIEW (ยง 27-705)

705.1. The Commission shall periodically review the practices and status of
   certified MBE&#8217;s to determine whether they continue to meet the
   eligibility requirements for certification and are conducting their business
   activities in accordance with the requirements of D.C. Law 1-95 and this
   chapter.

   705.2. Informal compliance review shall consist of monitoring reports and
   information submitted by agencies, MBE&#8217;s, and joint ventures; on-site
   visits; or interviews and discussions conducted by the Commission staff.

   705.3. If the Commission staff discovers correctable non-compliance as the
   result of an informal compliance review, it may seek compliance by the MBE
   prior to instituting further proceedings. In those cases, the Staff Director
   shall issue a Notice of Non-Compliance to the MBE specifying the nature of the
   alleged non-compliance and recommending steps to be taken by the MBE to
   correct the stated deficiencies. The staff may enter into discussions with the
   MBE to attempt to resolve the compliance problem(s) informally.

   705.4. If the informal compliance procedures result in the correction of the
   deficiencies, the Staff Director shall make a report to the Commission which
   shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The compliance review findings;
   
   
   
   (b)	A copy of the Notice of Non-Compliance;
   
   
   
   (c)	The steps taken to correct any deficiencies; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The results of a follow-up investigation.

   705.5. If the informal compliance procedures do not result in the correction
   of all deficiencies, the Staff Director may institute formal compliance review
   proceedings or, if formal compliance review procedures are unnecessary, submit
   a Compliance Review Report to the Commission.

   705.6. Upon receipt of a sworn complaint from any person or a report of
   alleged violation by an agency head, the Commission may direct the Commission
   staff to conduct an informal compliance review or it may order a formal
   compliance review investigation which may include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	On-site visits;
   
   
   
   (b)	Interviews and discussions with MBE representatives;
   
   
   
   (c)	Requests for submission of information;
   
   
   
   (d)	Audit of MBE books and records; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Other means of determining the validity of the charge of alleged
   non-compliance.

   705.7. Upon completion of the formal compliance review process, the Commission
   staff shall prepare and submit a report to the Commission setting forth its
   findings and recommendations.

   705.8. Upon receipt of the Compliance Review Report, the Commission may hold
   an informal preliminary hearing at which the MBE shall be allowed to appear
   and state its position on the allegations. After the informal preliminary
   hearing or without an informal hearing if the Commission so determines, the
   Commission shall take one of the following actions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Dismiss the allegations as unfounded or trivial; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Adopt formal charges and conduct a formal hearing on the allegations in
   accordance with the provisions of ยง708.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 26 DCR 2771, 2786 (December 21, 1979).
