                                  DC REGULATIONS

OFFICERS (§ 4-300)

300.1. The officers of the Commission shall be the Chairperson, the
   Vice-Chairperson and the Secretary.

   300.2. The Chairperson shall perform the following duties:
   
   
   
   (a)	Preside at regular meetings of the Commission;
   
   
   
   (b)	Preside at all other meetings called by the Commission, or designate the
   Vice- Chairperson or any other Commissioner to preside;
   
   
   
   (c)	Serve as the spokesperson for the Commission on all matters, or designate
   the Vice-Chairperson or another Commissioner to serve in that capacity;
   
   
   
   (d)	Issue or sign notices and correspondence in accordance with § 307;
   
   
   
   (e)	Appoint committees, hearing tribunals, and other panels as required;
   
   
   
   (f)	Recommend to the Mayor dismissal of any Commissioner who fails to attend
   three (3) consecutive regularly scheduled meetings, unless in the opinion of
   the Chairperson there is good cause for the failure to attend; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Perform other duties of the Commission as the Commission may delegate.

   300.3. The Vice-Chairperson shall act as Chairperson when the Chairperson is
   absent, or when requested by the Chairperson, and shall perform other duties
   assigned by the Chairperson or the Commission.

   300.4. The Secretary shall perform the following duties:
   
   
   
   (a)	Oversee the recording of the minutes of Commission meetings, and submit
   the minutes to the Commission for approval;
   
   
   
   (b)	Call the roll at monthly Commission meetings;
   
   
   
   (c)	Announce that a quorum is or is not present;
   
   
   
   (d)	Draft letters to Commissioners who have been absent for more than two (2)
   consecutive monthly meetings or two (2) consecutive tribunal meetings,
   regarding their participation in monthly and tribunal meetings; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Perform such ministerial and other duties assigned by the Commission.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: Unless otherwise noted, the authority for this chapter is § 4 of
   Commissioner’s Order 71-224 dated July 8, 1971.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 6720 (October 7, 1994).
