                                  DC REGULATIONS

HEARING TRIBUNAL (ยง 4-404)

404.1. After a complaint has been certified to the Commission for public
   hearing, the Chairperson shall appoint a Hearing Tribunal consisting of three
   (3) members of the Commission, sitting as the Commission, to adjudicate the
   complaint.

   404.2. The Chairperson may designate one or more hearing examiners to hear and
   report back to the Hearing Tribunal on any complaint before the Commission.
   The hearing examiner(s) may be appointed from a list of qualified examiners
   approved by the Commission or from among the Commissioners. A Hearing Tribunal
   may also function in the role of hearing examiner, and shall render a final
   decision and order in such role.

   404.3. Any Commissioner or hearing examiner who has participated in the
   precertification processing of a complaint or has participated in any decision
   related to the merits may not sit as a member of the Hearing Tribunal
   appointed to adjudicate the complaint or as a hearing examiner delegated to
   hearing the complaint.

   404.4. Upon assignment of a complaint, the Hearing Tribunal and the hearing
   examiner, if one has been designated, shall receive the materials listed in ยง
   401.2, together with any available information as to the addresses and
   telephone numbers of the parties and their representatives. At no time prior
   to the commencement of the hearing shall the Hearing Tribunal or the hearing
   examiner receive any information regarding the merits of the complaint.

   404.5. Upon assignment of the complaint, the Chairperson shall notify the
   parties of the name of the designated hearing examiner. In the absence of a
   designated hearing examiner, the Chairperson shall notify the parties of the
   names of the assigned Hearing Tribunal members.

   404.6. The hearing examiner, whether selected from a list of qualified
   examiners, or from among the Commissioners, shall be entitled to an
   appropriate per diem allowance while conducting the hearing; provided, that
   prior to the hearing, the Chairperson has certified that funds are available
   for such purpose.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1429, 1431-32 (March 24, 1995).
