                                  DC REGULATIONS

DISCOVERY (§ 4-417)

417.1. Any party may obtain discovery from any other party who is subject to
   the jurisdiction of the Commission. Discovery may be obtained in regard to any
   matter not privileged, which is or may be reasonably calculated to lead to
   admissible evidence.

   417.2. Except as otherwise ordered by the hearing examiner, a party shall,
   without awaiting any discovery request, provide to all parties the following
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, and, if known, the address and telephone number of each
   individual believed to have discoverable information relevant to the facts
   alleged in the complaint; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A copy of, or a description by category any location of, all documents,
   data compilations, and tangible things in the possession, custody, or control
   of the party that are relevant to the facts alleged in the complaint.

   417.3. Unless otherwise stipulated or ordered by the hearing examiner, these
   disclosures shall be made at or within thirty (30) days following the status
   conference provided for in § 412.1.

   417.4. Consistent with the scheduling order of each case, parties may obtain
   discovery by one or more of the following methods:
   
   
   
   (a)	Deposition upon oral examination or written questions;
   
   
   
   (b)	Written interrogatories, except that no party shall serve upon another
   party at one time or cumulatively more than forty (40) written
   interrogatories, including parts and subparts, unless otherwise ordered by the
   hearing examiner for good cause shown;
   
   
   
   (c)	Production of documents or things;
   
   
   
   (d)	Physical and mental examinations; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Requests for admission.

   417.5. Unless otherwise specified by order of the hearing examiner, responses
   to any discovery request shall be made within thirty (30) days of the service
   of that request.

   417.6. Upon failure of a party to comply with a discovery request, the
   requesting party may move for an order of the hearing examiner compelling
   discovery; provided, that the requesting party shows a substantial need for
   the requested discovery in preparing its case and is unable to obtain
   substantially equivalent material by alternate means without undue hardship.

   417.7. An evasive or incomplete answer to a request for discovery shall be
   considered a failure to comply. Upon such finding, the hearing examiner shall
   issue an order compelling production of the discovery requested. If the
   compelled party fails to comply with the order, the hearing examiner may order
   sanctions including, but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Award of costs and attorney’s fees to the compelling party;
   
   
   
   (b)	Limitation as to issues or to the admissibility of certain evidence at the
   hearing; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Disqualification of the compelled party’s representative.
   
   
   
   Upon motion of a party from whom discovery is requested, the hearing examiner
   may issue any order which justice requires to protect any party or person from
   unnecessary annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense,
   including but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Denial of the requested discovery;
   
   
   
   (b)	Limitation of the requested discovery as to scope, time, method, or other
   terms and conditions;
   
   
   
   (c)	Protective order of confidentiality as to all or part of the material or
   information requested; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Requirement that the parties simultaneously file specified documents or
   information in sealed envelopes to be opened at the direction of the hearing
   examiner.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1429, 1441-43 (March 24, 1995).
