                                  DC REGULATIONS

DISMISSAL (§ 4-426)

426.1. The Hearing Tribunal may order the dismissal of any certified complaint
   at any time after receipt by the Commission, upon the motion of a party, upon
   the recommendation of the hearing examiner or the designee of the Chairperson,
   or sua sponte. The order shall be considered a Final Decision and Order within
   the meaning of § 430, shall be preceded by a Proposed Decision and Order if
   the hearing of the complaint was delegated to one or more hearing examiners
   who do not constitute the Hearing Tribunal, and may be appealed in accordance
   with § 431.

   426.2. The Hearing Tribunal may dismiss the complaint prior to the
   commencement of the hearing process upon the recommendation of the person
   designated by the Chairperson to review letters of determination, for any of
   the following reasons:
   
   
   
   (a)	Lack of jurisdiction over the subject matter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Lack of jurisdiction over the respondent;
   
   
   
   (c)	Untimely filing of the complaint;
   
   
   
   (d)	Prior filing in court; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Prior settlement of the complaint.

   426.3. For failure of the Office and the complainant to appear in person or
   through a representative, the Hearing Tribunal, when sitting as hearing
   examiner, may dismiss the complaint at the commencement of the hearing
   process, or when not sitting as hearing examiner, may dismiss the complaint
   upon the hearing examiner’s recommendation, following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Duly served notice to the Office and the complainant of the conference or
   hearing; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Failure to locate the complainant after reasonable, recorded efforts to do
   so.

   426.4. The Hearing Tribunal sitting as hearing examiner may dismiss the
   complaint at the end of the case in chief in support of the complaint, for
   failure to present a prima facie case of unlawful discriminatory act or
   practice. When not sitting as hearing examiner, the Hearing Tribunal may
   dismiss the complaint upon the hearing examiner’s recommendation. The
   hearing examiner may recess the hearing in order to prepare a Proposed
   Decision and Order recommending dismissal of the complaint, or may postpone a
   recommendation of dismissal until all the evidence has been adduced.

   426.5. The Hearing Tribunal sitting as hearing examiner may dismiss the
   complaint after the conclusion of the hearing, based on all of the evidence
   adduced in the hearing. When not sitting as hearing examiner, the Hearing
   Tribunal may dismiss the complaint upon the hearing examiner’s
   recommendation.

   426.6. Pursuant to § 416, the Commission may dismiss the complaint at any
   time prior to the Hearing Tribunal’s rendering of a Final Decision and
   Order.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1429, 1447-48 (March 24, 1995).
