                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPEAL FROM COMMISSION DECISION (§ 4-431)

431.1. Any party adversely affected by a Final Decision and Order of the
   Commission may file a written application for reconsideration with the
   Chairperson, within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of the Final
   Decision and Order. The grounds for requesting reconsideration shall be stated
   with particularity and shall include reference to any of the following, if
   applicable:
   
   
   
   (a)	Discovery of competent, relevant, and material evidence that was not
   reasonably discoverable during the course of the hearing process;
   
   
   
   (b)	Failure of the hearing examiner to admit into the record competent,
   relevant, and material evidence that was proffered during the hearing process;
   or
   
   
   
   (c)	Failure of the Hearing Tribunal to consider particular items of competent,
   relevant, and material evidence that were admitted into the record of the
   hearing process.

   431.2. Parties seeking reconsideration shall serve a copy of the application
   for reconsideration on all other parties in accordance with § 411. Parties
   opposing reconsideration may file replies within seven (7) calendar days of
   receipt of the application for reconsideration.

   431.3. Whenever possible, the matter shall be assigned to the Hearing Tribunal
   that rendered the Final Decision and Order. The Hearing Tribunal shall review
   the application, the replies, the Final Decision and Order, and other elements
   of the official record of the matter as required, and shall enter an order
   affirming, reversing, or modifying the Final Decision and Order, or remanding
   the matter to the hearing examiner for further processing. The Hearing
   Tribunal’s order shall be served on all parties.

   431.4. Failure to apply for reconsideration of a Final Decision and Order
   shall not be considered a failure to exhaust the administrative remedies
   available under the Act or this chapter.

   431.5. Any party adversely affected by a Final Decision and Order may file
   with the District of Columbia Court of Appeals a petition for review within
   such time limits as that Court may prescribe.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1429, 1452-53 (March 24, 1995).
