                                  DC REGULATIONS

DECISION AND ORDER (§ 4-430)

430.1. If the hearing was conducted by one or more hearing examiners who do
   not constitute the Hearing Tribunal:
   
   
   
   (a)	After consideration of any timely-filed post-hearing briefs, the hearing
   examiner(s) shall prepare and forward to the Hearing Tribunal a signed
   Proposed Decision and Order which shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A procedural summary;
   
   
   
   (2)	Proposed Findings of Fact;
   
   
   
   (3)	Proposed Conclusions of Law, with points and authorities; and
   
   
   
   (4)	A Proposed Order recommending the sustention or dismissal of any or all of
   the allegations of the complaint credited with probable cause;
   
   
   
   (b)	If sustention is recommended, the Proposed Decision and Order shall
   include a recommended order of remedy for the complainant in accordance with
   D.C. Official Code § 2-1403.13 (2001), and the Guidelines for Payment of
   Compensatory Damages and Attorney’s Fees;
   
   
   
   (c)	The hearing examiner’s Proposed Decision and Order shall be forwarded to
   the Hearing Tribunal within fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt of the
   parties’ post- hearing briefs or, if no briefs are filed, upon expiration of
   the period established by the hearing examiner for the submission of briefs;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Chief of the Hearing Tribunal shall cause to be served on the parties,
   in the name of the Hearing Tribunal, the hearing examiner’s Proposed
   Decision and Order together with notice that any party adversely affected may
   file written exceptions with the Hearing Tribunal within fifteen (15) calendar
   days of receipt of the proposed Decision and Order;
   
   
   
   (e)	The Hearing Tribunal shall prepare a signed Final Decision and Order which
   shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A procedural summary;
   
   
   
   (2)	Findings of fact;
   
   
   
   (3)	Conclusions of Law, with points and authorities; and
   
   
   
   (4)	An order sustaining or dismissing any or all of the allegations of the
   complaint credited with probable cause or remanding the complaint to the
   hearing examiner for further processing;
   
   
   
   (f)	If sustention is ordered, the Final Decision and Order shall include an
   order of remedy for the complainant in accordance with D.C. Official Code §
   2-1403.13 (2001), and the Guidelines for Payment of Compensatory Damages and
   Attorney’s Fees. The order shall be appealable in accordance with § 431;
   
   
   
   (g)	The Chairperson shall serve on the parties, in the name of the Commission,
   the Final Decision and Order of the Hearing Tribunal, together with notice
   that any party adversely affected may file a written application for
   reconsideration of the Final Decision and Order within fifteen (15) calendar
   days of receipt of the Final Decision and Order; and.
   
   
   
   (h)	The Final Decision and Order shall be served within fifteen (15) calendar
   days after receipt of the parties’ exceptions to the hearing examiner’s
   Proposed Decision and Order or, if no exceptions are filed, upon expiration of
   the period established for filing of exceptions.

   430.2. If the hearing was conducted by the Hearing Tribunal sitting as hearing
   examiner:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Hearing Tribunal shall prepare a Final Decision and Order consistent
   with §§ 430.1(e) and (f);
   
   
   
   (b)	The Chief of the Hearing Tribunal shall cause to be served on the parties
   the Final Decision and Order pursuant to § 430.1(g); and
   
   
   
   (c)	The Final Decision and Order shall be served within fifteen (15) calendar
   days after receipt of the parties’ post-hearing briefs or, if no briefs are
   filed, upon expiration of the period established by the Hearing Tribunal for
   the submission of briefs.

   430.3. The order of remedy for the complainant may require the respondent to
   do any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Cease and desist from unlawful discriminatory practices;
   
   
   
   (b)	Act affirmatively to correct the effects of practices found to be
   unlawfully discriminatory;
   
   
   
   (c)	Pay compensatory damages to the complainant;
   
   
   
   (d)	Pay reasonable attorney’s fees to the complainant; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Reimburse the complainant for expenses incurred as a result of having
   resorted to the administrative process under the Act.

   430.4. If at any time after the issuance of a Final Decision and Order
   requiring the payment of reasonable attorney’s fees and expenses, and the
   parties are unable to stipulate as to the amount, either party may request a
   hearing as to the amount of the fees and expenses to be paid.  The hearing
   shall be conducted by the hearing examiner who shall issue a Proposed Decision
   and Order setting out the amount of fees and or expenses to be paid. The
   Hearing Tribunal assigned to the case shall issue a Final Decision and Order.
   A request for a hearing under this provision shall not affect the
   appealability of a Final Decision and Order under § 431 of this chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1429, 1450-52 (March 24, 1995).
