                                  DC REGULATIONS

SANCTIONS (§ 4-434)

434.1. The hearing examiner may impose or recommend sanctions against any
   person present at or connected with a hearing proceeding who fails to comply
   with the hearing examiner’s instructions, engages in willful dilatory
   conduct, resists the Commission, disrupts the proceeding, or engages in any
   other form of misconduct.

   434.2. The sanctions that are generally applicable to such misconduct shall
   include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Exclusion from any part or all of the remainder of the proceedings; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Recommendation by the hearing examiner that the Office of Attorney General
   institute, in the name of the District of Columbia, criminal proceedings that
   may result in fines or imprisonment, pursuant to D.C. Official Code §
   1-1402.64 (2001).

   434.3. The sanctions that may be specifically applicable to misconduct engaged
   in by parties or their representative shall include, but shall not be limited
   to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Recommendation by the hearing examiner that the Hearing Tribunal dismiss
   the complaint in accordance with § 426 or institute default proceedings in
   accordance with § 427 when the complainant or the respondent fails to appear
   at or be prepared for any scheduled phase of the hearing process preceded by
   proper notice;
   
   
   
   (b)	Inference adverse to the interest of any party engaging in ex parte
   communications, on any issue which is the subject of the communications;
   
   
   
   (c)	Inference of facts sought to be established through discovery, in favor of
   the party seeking discovery, when the party from whom discovery is sought
   fails to comply with an order of the Commission compelling discovery;
   
   
   
   (d)	Prohibition of a party failing to comply with an order of the Commission
   compelling discovery, from asserting a claim or defense or introducing
   evidence regarding matters which are the subject of the order compelling
   discovery;
   
   
   
   (e)	Striking of pleadings or parts thereof which relate to matters which are
   the subject of an order of the Commission compelling discovery with which the
   pleading party failed to comply;
   
   
   
   (f)	Invocation of D.C. Official Code § 2-1402.64 (2001), when a party fails
   or refuses to comply with an Order of the Commission compelling discovery;
   
   
   
   (g)	Striking of pleadings that have not been signed in good faith;
   
   
   
   (h)	Inference that evidence is adverse to the interest of any party failing to
   comply with the hearing examiner’s instructions to produce the evidence;
   provided, that it is reasonably available and not subject to any privilege;
   
   
   
   (i)	Inference of admission when a party refused to respond to a request for
   admission of genuineness of an exhibit or of the truth of a fact;
   
   
   
   (j)	Exclusion of testimony of witnesses whose appearances are not preceded by
   reasonable efforts of the calling party to provide other parties with notice
   of their appearances; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Recommendation by the hearing examiner that the Commission suspend the
   privilege of a representative to practice before it when the
   representative’s misconduct is of an egregious or repeated character. Any
   party whose representative has been excluded from the proceedings shall be
   granted a reasonable continuance within which to obtain alternate
   representation.

   434.4. The sanctions that may be specifically applicable to misconduct engaged
   in by witnesses called before the Commission shall include, but shall not be
   limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Recommendation by the hearing examiner that the Chairperson report to the
   Office of Attorney General the failure of any witness to appear pursuant to a
   duly issued and served subpoena. The Chairperson shall seek enforcement of the
   subpoena by the Office of Attorney General in the Superior Court of the
   District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   (b)	Inference that the answer to a question ruled proper by the hearing
   examiner, which the witness refuses to answer, is favorable to the interest of
   the party on whose behalf the question is propounded; or striking of all of
   the witness’ testimony; provided, that the testimony is not subject to any
   privilege;
   
   
   
   (c)	Invocation of D.C. Official Code § 2-1402.64 (2001), when a witness
   refuses to answer a question ruled proper by the hearing examiner; provided,
   that the testimony is not subject to any privilege;
   
   
   
   (d)	Invocation of D.C. Official Code § 2-1402.64 (2001), or exclusion or
   striking of testimony of any witness failing to comply with § 423.3 of this
   chapter; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Recommendation by the hearing examiner that the -Office of Attorney
   General institute, in the name of the District of Columbia, criminal
   proceedings that may result in the punishment prescribed by law for perjury
   when a witness willfully testifies falsely.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1429, 1454-56 (March 24, 1995).
   Mayor’s Order 2004-92 (5-26-04).
