                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 17-7899)

7899.1. The definitions in section 4099 of this title are incorporated by
   reference into and are applicable to this chapter.

   7899.2. As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
   ascribed:
   
   
   
   Applicant – a person applying for a license to practice audiology under this
   chapter.
   
   
   
   Au.D. – Doctor of Audiology.
   
   
   
   Board – the Board of Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology, established by
   section 841 of the Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology Amendment Act of
   2006, effective March 6, 2007 (D.C. Law 16-219; D.C. Official Code
   § 3-1208.41 (2007 Repl.)).
   
   
   
   Direct supervision – supervision in which the supervisor is immediately
   available on the premises to the supervisee and within vocal communication of
   the supervisee either directly or by a communication device.
   
   
   
   General supervision – supervision in which the supervisor is available to
   the supervisee, either in person or by a communications device.
   
   
   
   Good cause – serious illness of the applicant, the death or serious illness
   of a member of the applicant’s immediate family, or other cause sufficient
   to the Board.
   
   
   
   Ph.D. – Doctor of Philosophy in Audiology.
   
   
   
   Practice of audiology – means the planning, directing, supervising, and
   conducting of habilitative or rehabilitative counseling programs for
   individuals or groups of individuals who have, or are suspected of having,
   disorders of hearing; any service in audiology, including prevention,
   identification, evaluation, consultation, habilitation or rehabilitation,
   instruction, or research; participating in hearing conservation or hearing aid
   and assistive listening device evaluation, selection, preparation, dispensing,
   and orientation; fabricating ear molds; providing auditory training and speech
   reading; or administering tests of vestibular function and tests for tinnitus.
    The practice of audiology includes speech and language screening limited to a
   pass-or-fail determination for the purpose of identification of individuals
   with disorders of communication.  The practice of audiology does not include
   the practice of medicine or osteopathic medicine, or the performance of a task
   in the normal practice of medicine or osteopathic medicine by a person to whom
   the task is delegated by a licensed physician.
   
   
   
   Supervised experience – the clinical fellowship year required for applicants
   for licensure with a Master’s degree or Ph.D. degree, or the period of
   supervised practice during an Au.D.  program.
   
   
   
   Supervisor – an audiologist who is qualified under subsection 7803.7 and who
   is providing general supervision to an individual completing the supervised
   experience requirements in section 7803, or an audiologist qualified under
   subsection 7812.9 who is providing direct supervision to a graduate student
   under section 7812.
   
   
   
   Supervisee – an individual who is completing the supervised experience
   requirements.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4336, 4343 (May 20,
   2011).
