                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPERVISED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS (§ 17-7803)

7803.1. In order to satisfy the supervised experience requirement of
   subsection 7802.1(c) a person must meet one (1) of the following standards:
   
   
   
   (a)	The person shall have completed the equivalent of a clinical fellowship
   with a minimum of one thousand eight hundred twenty (1820) hours of clinical
   practice under general supervision while a candidate for an Au.D. degree; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Each of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The person shall have graduated with a Master’s degree or Ph.D. degree
   meeting the requirements set forth in section 7802.1(a) before the start of
   the supervised experience; and
   
   
   
   (2)	The person shall have commenced a clinical fellowship, meeting the time
   period/works hours and supervised activities standards set forth in
   subsections 7803.2 and 7803.3, within two (2) years after the date of
   conferral of the Master’s or Ph.D. degree and shall have completed the
   clinical fellowship within three and a half (3½) years after the date of the
   conferral of the degree; provided, the Board may extend the period required
   for completion of the clinical fellowship for good cause shown.

   7803.2. To meet the clinical fellowship time period and work hours requirement
   referenced in subsection 7803.1(b)(2), the applicant shall be employed, with
   or without direct compensation, as a professional in the field of audiology
   under general supervision for any of the following time periods and hours:
   
   
   
   (a)	Thirty (30) hours of work per week for a period of nine (9) months;
   
   
   
   (b)	Twenty five (25) to twenty-nine (29) hours of work per week for a period
   of twelve (12) months;
   
   
   
   (c)	Twenty (20) to twenty-four (24) hours of work per week for a period of
   fifteen (15) months; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Fifteen (15) to nineteen (19) hours of work per week for a period of
   eighteen (18) months.
   
   
   
   7803.3 	To meet the clinical fellowship supervised activities requirement
   referenced in subsection 7803.1(b)(2):
   
   
   
   (a)	At least eighty percent (80%) of the supervisee’s supervised experience
   shall be in direct client contact, which includes the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Assessment, diagnosis, evaluation, and treatment;
   
   
   
   (2)	Screening;
   
   
   
   (3)	Habilitation and rehabilitation; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Activities related to case management.
   
   
   
   (b)	The remaining percentage of the supervisee’s supervised experience shall
   be comprised of supervised activities such as writing, research, or planning.
   
   
   
   (c)	The activities during the supervised experience shall consist of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Conducting evaluations and treatment procedures;
   
   
   
   (2)	Interpreting test results;
   
   
   
   (3)	Determining case selections;
   
   
   
   (4)	Designing treatment programs;
   
   
   
   (5)	Collecting data and documenting performance;
   
   
   
   (6)	Maintaining clinical records;
   
   
   
   (7)	Providing written or oral reports (progress notes, diagnostic reports)
   regarding clients’ statuses;
   
   
   
   (8)	Making referrals; and
   
   
   
   (9)	Participating in case conferences.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	An individual serving as a supervisor for the supervised experience
   requirement shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Hold either a District of Columbia license in audiology, a license issued by
   another jurisdiction with requirements substantially similar to the licensure
   requirements in the District, or, for states that do not require licensure, a
   Certificate of Clinical Competence from the American Speech-Language Hearing
   Association in audiology or a board certification from the American Board of
   Audiology;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Have been in practice for a minimum of two (2) years after his or her
   licensure or certification;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not supervise more than three (3) individuals at one (1) time;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not have been disciplined by a board within the previous five (5) years; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provide a minimum of thirty-six (36) hours of supervisory activities during
   the supervised experience, including a minimum of two (2) hours of monitoring
   activities, each month.

   7803.5. An individual serving as a supervisor in the District shall be legally
   responsible for services provided by the supervisee.

   7803.6. An applicant shall demonstrate that he or she has met the requirements
   of subsections 7803.2-7803.3 by submitting with his or her application a
   signed statement from each supervisor who supervised the applicant during the
   required period of experience.  Each statement shall set forth the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The number of hours per week of the applicant’s practice of audiology;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number of hours of general supervision of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (c)	The specific nature of, and responsibilities included in, the
   applicant’s practice;
   
   
   
   (d)	A rating of the applicant’s performance;
   
   
   
   (e)	The location at which, and period(s) of time during which, the supervision
   took place; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The license number and jurisdiction in which the supervisor was licensed
   during the supervised period or proof that the supervisor has a Certificate of
   Clinical Competence from the American Speech-Language Hearing Association or
   board certification from the American Board of Audiology if the supervised
   experience took place in a state that does not require licensure of
   audiologists.

   7803.7. The Board may accept successful completion of the clinical fellowship
   required for the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association Certificate of
   Clinical Competence or American Board of Audiology certification as meeting
   the requirements for supervised experience.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4336, 4337 (May 20,
   2011).
