                                  DC REGULATIONS

RIPARIAN RIGHTS AND WATER PRIVILEGES PETITIONS (ยง 21-604)

604.1. Any person, corporation, association or other entity owning land, with
   riparian rights or water privileges appurtenant to that land, bordering any
   waters or having the right to possession of that land and appurtenances, or
   having riparian rights or water privileges in those waters, may file a
   petition in writing, to the Department seeking any or all of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Fixation of the boundaries of riparian or water privileges in which the
   petitioner is interested within the pierhead line in those waters; or
   
   
   
   (b)	A permit to deposit artificial fill within the bulkhead line in those
   waters.

   604.2. Each petition shall consist of an original and four copies, addressed
   to the Mayor, and duly verified by the petitioner.

   604.3. A filing fee of twenty-five dollars ($25), payable to the order of the
   D.C. Treasurer, shall be paid upon the filing of each petition.

   604.4. Each petition (and copy of a petition) filed under this section shall
   have attached to it a blueprint showing the area involved.

   604.5. Each petition shall name as respondents all persons, corporations, and
   associations whose interests will be affected by the prayers for relief in the
   petition.

   604.6. Within ten (10) days (unless the Mayor shall for cause extend that
   time) after the filing of the petition, each petitioner shall file with the
   Mayor an affidavit showing that a copy of the petition was served upon each
   party named as respondent in the petition personally or by mail, postage
   prepaid, to the last known address of the respondent.

   604.7. If the petitioner fails to name and serve all interested parties, the
   Mayor shall have the right to defer any hearing in the matter until the
   petitioner establishes by affidavit that all interested parties have been
   served as provided for in this chapter.

   604.8. Each party served shall have ten (10) days from the date of service
   upon that party to file a response setting forth any objections or consent to
   the relief, action, or permit sought in the petition.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Commissioners&#8217; Order No. 54-576, dated March 16, 1954, 5T DCRR
   ยง3.1 (September 21, 1970).
