                                  DC REGULATIONS

PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR A SPECIAL TREE REMOVAL PERMIT (§ 24-3701)

3701.1. A permit application for a Special Tree Removal Permit shall be signed
   by the owner of the property on which the Special Tree is located and
   submitted to the Urban Forestry Administration on a form provided by the Urban
   Forestry Administration. The permit application shall be submitted at least
   fifteen (15) business days prior to the day that removal of the Special Tree
   is desired.

   3701.2. In addition to such other information as the Urban Forestry
   Administration may request, the permit application for a Special Tree Removal
   Permit shall state the address of the property on which the Special Tree is
   located.

   3701.3. If Special Tree removal is sought, in whole or in part, based upon a
   promise to plant replacement trees pursuant to § 3701.7(b), and the
   replacement trees will not be planted on the property where the Special Tree
   is located, the permit application shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The address of the Private Property where the replacement trees will be
   planted;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement, signed by the owner of the Private Property on which the
   replacement trees will be planted, on behalf of the present owners and all
   future owners of the Private Property, that upon issuance of the Special Tree
   Removal Permit, the owner of the Private Property on which the replacement
   trees are to be planted shall:
   
   
   
   (1)	Plant and maintain, or permit the permittee to plant and maintain, the
   replacement trees in accordance with §§ 3702.2(a) -(e);
   
   
   
   (2)	Allow an inspector of the Urban Forestry Administration reasonable access
   to the Private Property for twelve (12) months following the planting of the
   replacement trees in accordance with § 3702.2(h);
   
   
   
   (3)	Comply with all other applicable requirements of this chapter and the
   terms of the Special Tree Removal Permit, including, but not limited to, §
   3702.2(f); and
   
   
   
   (4)	Be subject to the imposition of fines, penalties, and fees for any
   violation of §§ 3701.3(b)(1)-(3).

   3701.4. As part of the permit application for a Special Tree Removal Permit,
   the applicant shall agree to permit an arborist from the Urban Forestry
   Administration to inspect the proposed Special Tree removal site. The
   inspection shall occur during the Urban Forestry Administration&#8217;s normal
   business hours and prior to issuance of a Special Tree Removal Permit.

   3701.5. If an International Society of Arboriculture certified arborist or an
   Urban Forestry Administration arborist determines that the Special Tree to be
   removed is a Hazardous Tree or is a tree that has been identified pursuant to
   § 3701.9 as appropriate for removal, a Special Tree Removal Permit shall be
   issued. A Special Tree Removal Permit issued pursuant to this subsection shall
   not be suspended or revoked based upon a third party&#8217;s allegation that
   the arborist certification was in error.

   3701.6. If the applicant elects on the permit application to have an Urban
   Forestry Administration arborist make the determination set forth in § 3701.5
   and the arborist fails to make a determination within forty (40) days after
   the permit application is submitted, a Special Tree Removal Permit shall be
   issued.

   3701.7. If an International Society of Arboriculture certified arborist or an
   Urban Forestry Administration arborist determines that the tree to be removed
   is not a Hazardous Tree and is not a tree that has been identified in §
   3701.9, or if the applicant stipulates as to both on the permit application,
   no Special Tree Removal Permit shall be issued until the applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Pays into the Tree Fund a tree replacement fee equivalent to
   thirty-fivedollars ($35) per inch of circumference of each Special Tree that
   is to be removed;
   
   
   
   (b)	Avers on the permit application for a Special Tree Removal Permit toplant,
   on Private Property located within the District, as identified on the permit
   application, and in accordance with §§ 3702.2(a)-(e), a quantity of saplings
   whose aggregated circumference equals or exceeds the circumference of the
   Special Tree(s) to be removed; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A combination of (a) and (b) so as to account for the circumference of the
   Special Tree(s) removed.

   3701.8. The authority to remove a Special Tree as granted by a Special Tree
   Removal Permit shall be valid for one hundred eighty (180) calendar days after
   the date of issuance of a Special Tree Removal Permit.

   3701.9. Tree species appropriate for removal are:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ailanthus altissima (common name-Ailanthus);
   
   
   
   (b)	Morus species (common name-Mulberry); and
   
   
   
   (c)	Acer platanoides (common name-Norway maple).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 546 (January 21, 2005).
