                                  DC REGULATIONS

HOME IMPROVEMENT CONTRACTS (ยง 16-808)

808.1. No home improvement contractor or salesman or other agent for the
   contractor shall accept any payment for home improvement work to be performed
   for a homeowner until after the understanding between the homeowner and the
   contractor, or the contractor&#8217;s salesperson or other agent, with respect
   to the work, has been reduced to writing in accordance with the provisions of
   this section.

   808.2. The written understanding of the parties shall be incorporated in a
   written contract which shall be filled in and signed in at least triplicate,
   on a form which shall comply in all respects with this chapter, with all blank
   spaces filled in.

   808.3. The contract shall be signed by the homeowner and, as the case may be,
   either by the contractor, or by the salesperson or other agent for the
   contractor subject to the contractor&#8217;s approval.

   808.4. The names and license number of all salespersons who participated in
   negotiating the contract shall be inserted in the contract, in the space
   provided for the purpose, and they shall be identified in the contract as the
   participating salespersons.

   808.5. If the form of contract at the time it is executed by the homeowner is
   not executed by the contractor, the homeowner shall, at the time of the
   homeowner&#8217;s signing the contract, be furnished a copy of the document
   bearing both the homeowner&#8217;s signature and the signature of a
   salesperson. Thereafter, upon the execution of the contract by the contractor,
   the homeowner shall be furnished a copy of the contract executed both by the
   homeowner and by the contractor.

   808.6. If the form of contract contains a provision that the contract shall
   not be binding until accepted by the contractor, the contractor shall within
   fifteen (15) days after the contract has been executed by the homeowner,
   unless a later date is agreed upon between the contractor and the homeowner in
   writing, give the homeowner written notice of acceptance or rejection.

   808.7. Notice of acceptance or rejection under ยง 808.6 shall be delivered to
   the homeowner either personally or by certified or registered mail.

   808.8. In case of rejection, any payment made by the homeowner shall returned
   to the homeowner with the notice of rejection.

   808.9. Each contract for home improvement work shall bear the name, address,
   and telephone number of the home improvement contractor and his home
   improvement contractor&#8217;s license number.

   808.10. Each contract shall include a description of the terms of payment, the
   approximate date on which the work required by the contract is to start, and
   the approximate date on which the work will be completed, such starting and
   completion dates to be subject to change at the time the contract is accepted
   by the contractor and at no other time (except by written agreement between
   the homeowner and the contractor), with notice of any such change to be set
   forth in the written notice of acceptance of the contract furnished the
   homeowner by the contractor.

   808.11. A contract may include a provision to the effect that the contractor
   shall not be liable for delays due to unforeseeable causes beyond the control
   of and without the fault or negligence of the contractor, including acts of
   God or the public enemy or of the homeowner, fires, floods, strikes, freight
   embargoes, or unusually severe weather.

   808.12. A set of specifications shall be made part of the contract, either by
   inclusion in the contract or by being incorporated in the contract by
   reference, showing the work to be done and the materials to be used.

   808.13. There shall be no change in specifications without the written
   approval of the homeowner.

   808.14. No contractor or salesperson shall cause or permit any contract or
   other document relating to the performance of home improvement work to be
   signed by the homeowner before all blank spaces are filled in with easily
   legible writing and the contractor or salesperson has submitted to the owner
   the completed contract or other document and given the homeowner a reasonable
   opportunity to examine it.

   808.15. Each contract shall contain a notice satisfactory to the Director in
   bold type no smaller than ten (10) point stating in substance that the
   homeowner shall not sign the contract in blank and that the homeowner is
   entitled to a copy of the contract at the time he or she signs.

   808.16. If the homeowner has a prior existing unpaid account balance with the
   contractor which arose in the regular course of business and which is to be
   consolidated with the unpaid balance for the performance of home improvement
   work, then, as a separate transaction, the contractor may, within fifteen (15)
   days subsequent to the time the contract is signed by the homeowner, and not
   less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to commencing performance of the work,
   furnish the homeowner with a written statement setting forth the consolidated
   balance due the contractor and the terms of payment.
