                                  DC REGULATIONS

DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE (ยง 16-813)

813.1. The license of each contractor or salesperson shall be subject to
   denial, suspension, or revocation on any ground set forth in any other section
   of this chapter which is applicable to any such license or on any ground
   falling within the terms of paragraph 46 of ยง 7 of the Act, approved July 1,
   1932, as amended (47 Stat. 563; D.C. Code ยง 47-2844 (1981 Ed.)), including,
   but without limitation, any of the grounds set forth in this section.

   813.2. All qualifications set forth in this chapter as prerequisite to the
   issuance of any license shall be maintained for the entire license period.
   Failure to maintain any qualification for a license shall be cause for
   suspension or revocation of the license.

   813.3. The grounds for denial, suspension, or revocation of a license include
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Material misstatement in application for license;
   
   
   
   (b)	Failure or refusal to comply with any provision of statute or regulation
   governing the carrying on of home improvement work;
   
   
   
   (c)	Conviction of false pretenses, larceny after trust, embezzlement, or any
   other offense involving fraudulent conduct, arising out of or based on a home
   improvement contract;
   
   
   
   (d)	Misrepresentation or concealment, through any subterfuge or device, or any
   matter required by this chapter to be stated to the homeowner, or of the
   nature of any matter required by this chapter to be furnished to the
   homeowner;
   
   
   
   (e)	Employment of any fraudulent or misleading device, method, or practice in
   connection with the negotiation or performance of a contract for home
   improvement work;
   
   
   
   (f)	Use of advertising with regard to contracting for or performing home
   improvement work which is misleading or deceptive by reason of any false
   statement contained in that advertising or which, by reason of incompleteness
   or otherwise, may mislead or deceive;
   
   
   
   (g)	Willful or fraudulent circumvention of any provision of statute or
   regulations relating to the conduct of the home improvement business;
   
   
   
   (h)	(Contractor Only) Employing engaging, appointing, allowing, or permitting
   any person to act as a salesperson for or on behalf of a contractor, knowing
   or having been put upon notice to ascertain that such a person is not duly
   licensed as a salesperson for the dealer, or that the person&#8217;s
   salesperson&#8217;s license has been denied, suspended, or revoked;
   
   
   
   (i)	(Contractor Only) The unjustified failure or refusal of a contractor
   substantially to complete the work required by a home improvement contract
   within a reasonable time after the approximate date of completion specified in
   the contract; and
   
   
   
   (j)	(Salesperson Only) Acting as a salesperson for or on behalf of any person,
   knowing or having been put upon notice to ascertain that the person is not
   duly licensed as a contractor, or that the person&#8217;s contractor&#8217;s
   license has been denied, suspended, or revoked.

   813.4. Any advertising which conforms with the then current regulations,
   rules, or guides of the Federal Trade Commission shall not be deemed to be
   misleading or deceptive under ยง 813.3(f).
