                                  DC REGULATIONS

LICENSING OF CONTRACTORS AND SALESPERSONS (ยง 16-801)

801.1. Application for a license to engage in business as a home improvement
   contractor or salesperson shall be made to the Director on a form prescribed
   by the Director.

   801.2. Each person applying for a license shall submit to the Director under
   oath, such information as the Director may require to assist in determining
   whether the applicant is trustworthy and intends to act as a bona fide home
   improvement contractor or salesperson.

   801.3. Each application for a salesperson&#8217;s license shall include a
   certification by the licensed contractor for whom the applicant purposes to
   act as salesperson that the applicant will, if licensed, be employed by that
   contractor.

   801.4. Each applicant for a license as a salesperson (including any
   contractor, officer, or member of any firm, partnership, joint stock company,
   corporation, association, or incorporated society when engaging in the
   activities of a salesperson) shall, at time of initial application, submit
   three (3) identical full-faced photographs of himself or herself, one inch by
   one and one-half inches (1 in. x 1 1/2 in.) in size taken not more than three
   (3) months prior to date of application.

   801.5. If the Director is satisfied that an applicant has met the
   qualifications set forth in ยง 801.4, the Director shall issue the license.

   801.6. When the Director issues a salesperson&#8217;s license, the Director
   shall register the licensee as a salesperson for the contractor who certified
   the application.

   801.7. The Director may issue a temporary license as a salesperson, valid for
   not more than thirty (30) days, to any applicant who presents at the time of
   making application for a regular salesperson&#8217;s license, an affidavit on
   a form prescribed by the Director and sworn to before a notary public, by a
   contractor located in the Metropolitan Area of the District of Columbia and
   licensed to engage in the home improvement business in the District,
   certifying that the applicant will be employed by the contractor as a home
   improvement salesperson.

   801.8. For the purposes of this section, the &#8220;Metropolitan Area of the
   District of Columbia&#8221; means the District of Columbia, Montgomery and
   Prince Georges Counties in Maryland, and Arlington and Fairfax Counties and
   the cities of Alexandria and Falls Church in Virginia.

   801.9. Any false statement contained in the affidavit presented under ยง 801.7
   shall be grounds for the suspension of revocation of the license of the
   contractor.

   801.10. Any false statement contained in the application for license as a
   salesperson shall be grounds for the denial, suspension or revocation of that
   license.

   801.11. If any officer, director, partner, or managing employee of any
   applicant for license as a contractor, or any person exercising control,
   directly or indirectly, over such applicant, is himself or herself deficient
   in the qualification of trustworthiness so that he or she would not be
   entitled to a license under this section if he or she applied for it in his or
   her own name, the deficiency may be deemed to be the deficiency of the
   applicant.
