                                  DC REGULATIONS

INVITATIONS FOR BIDS (ยง 27-2610)

2610.1. An invitation for bids (&#8220;IFB&#8221;) for construction shall
   allow a reasonable time for bidders to prepare and submit their bids, but in
   no event less than thirty (30) days. Each IFB shall be publicized in
   accordance with the provisions of the Act and chapter 13 of this title.

   2610.2. In determining what is a reasonable time, the contracting officer
   shall consider the construction season and the time necessary for bidders to
   inspect the site, obtain subcontract bids, examine data concerning the work,
   and prepare estimates based on plans and specifications.

   2610.3. The contracting officer shall ensure that each IFB includes the
   following information, when applicable:
   
   
   
   (a)	The appropriate wage determination as issued by the U.S. Department of
   Labor; or, if the IFB must be issued before the wage determination is
   received, a notice that the schedule for minimum wage rates to be paid under
   the contract will be issued as an amendment to the IFB;
   
   
   
   (b)	The scope of the proposed construction project;
   
   
   
   (c)	The period of performance;
   
   
   
   (d)	Arrangements for bidders to inspect the site and examine the data
   concerning performance of the work;
   
   
   
   (e)	Information concerning any facilities, such as utilities, office space,
   and warehouse space, to be furnished during the construction period;
   
   
   
   (f)	Any special qualifications or experience requirements that will be
   considered;
   
   
   
   (g)	Any special instructions concerning bids, alternate bids, and award;
   
   
   
   (h)	Any instructions concerning reporting requirements; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Any other clauses required by the Act or this title.

   2610.4. The contracting officer shall provide notice of the IFB in accordance
   with chapter 13 of this title.

   2610.5. The contracting officer shall send IFBs to prospective bidders who
   request them.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1583 (February 26, 1988).
