                                  DC REGULATIONS

ARCHITECT-ENGINEER SERVICES (§ 27-2620)

2620.1. The contracting officer shall publicize all requirements for
   architect-engineer services in accordance with chapter 13 of this title, and
   negotiate contracts for these services based on the demonstrated competence
   and qualifications of prospective contractors to perform the services required
   at fair and reasonable prices.

   2620.2. If the District accepts funding assistance for a project from a
   federal or other source, and a condition of assistance is that a nonprice
   competitive procedure for selection of architect-engineers which is in
   compliance with Public Law 6-85, §304(g), but that differs from the
   procedures specified in this section, a modified architect-engineer selection
   procedure, approved by the Director, may be used which is in compliance with
   both the Act and the assistance agreement.

   2620.3. The contracting officer shall select a contractor for
   architect-engineer services in accordance with the provisions of this section
   rather than the solicitation or source selection procedures specified
   elsewhere in this title.

   2620.4. Compliance with the provisions of §§2620 through 2633 of this
   chapter shall constitute a competitive procedure for the procurement of
   architect-engineer services.

   2620.5. The contracting officer shall evaluate each potential contractor based
   on the following criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	Professional qualifications necessary for satisfactory performance of the
   required services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Specialized experience and technical competence in the type of work
   required;
   
   
   
   (c)	Capacity to accomplish the work in the required time;
   
   
   
   (d)	Past performance on contracts with the District, other governmental
   entities, and private industry in terms of cost control, quality of work, and
   compliance with performance schedules; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Acceptability under other appropriate evaluation criteria.

   2620.6. When the use of design competition is approved by the head of the
   using agency, the contracting officer may evaluate firms on the basis of their
   conceptual design of the project.

   2620.7. Design competition may be used in the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	When unique situations exist involving prestigious projects, such as the
   design of memorials or structures of unusual national or local significance;
   
   
   
   (b)	When sufficient time is available for the production and evaluation of
   conceptual designs; and
   
   
   
   (c)	When the design competition, with its costs, will substantially benefit
   the project.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1586 (February 26, 1988),
