                                  DC REGULATIONS

VISIBLE EMISSIONS (§ 20-606)

606.1 	Except as otherwise provided in these air quality regulations, visible
   emissions shall not be emitted into the outdoor atmosphere from stationary
   sources (excluding fuel-burning equipment placed in initial operation before
   January 1, 1977); provided, that discharges not exceeding forty percent (40%)
   opacity (unaveraged) shall be permitted for two (2) minutes in any sixty (60)
   minute period and for an aggregate of twelve (12) minutes in any twenty-four
   hour (24 hr.) period during start-up, cleaning, soot blowing, adjustment of
   combustion controls, or malfunction of equipment.
   
   
   
   606.2 	Except as otherwise provided in these air quality regulations, visible
   emissions whose opacity is in excess of ten percent (10%) (unaveraged), at any
   time shall not be emitted into the outdoor atmosphere, from any fuel-burning
   equipment placed in initial operation before January 1, 1977; provided, that:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Opacity not in excess of forty percent (40%) (unaveraged) shall be
   permitted for two (2) minutes in any sixty (60) minute period and for an
   aggregate of twelve (12) minutes in any twenty-four hour (24 hr.) period other
   than during start-up of equipment;
   
   
   
   (b) 	During start-up of equipment, opacity not in excess of forty percent
   (40%) (averaged over six (6) minutes) shall be permitted for an aggregate of
   five (5) times per start-up; and
   
   
   
   (c)	In addition to the emissions permitted under § 606.2(a), during shutdown
   of equipment, opacity not in excess of fifteen percent (15%) (unaveraged)
   shall be allowed and in addition, opacity not in excess of thirty percent
   (30%) (averaged over three (3) minutes) shall be permitted for an aggregate of
   three (3) times per shutdown.

   606.3. As an exception to § 606.1, the owner or operator of a stationary
   source may obtain a permit pursuant to chapters 2 or 3 of this title allowing
   visible emissions not exceeding ten percent (10%) opacity if the owner or
   operator can demonstrate that the source meets the following criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	The source meets all applicable particulate matter standards at the
   increased visible emissions limit;
   
   
   
   (b)	Visible emissions at the increased visible emissions limit are not an
   indication of improper operation of the equipment;
   
   
   
   (c)	The particulate emissions at the increased visible emissions limit will
   not create a violation of any National Ambient Air Quality Standard; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The source cannot modify operations or install control equipment to meet a
   lower opacity standard without incurring unreasonable expense.
   
   
   
   606.4 	At all times, including periods of start-up and malfunction, owners and
   operators of stationary sources and fuel-burning equipment shall, to the
   extent practicable, maintain and operate stationary sources and fuel-burning
   equipment, including associated air pollution control equipment, in a manner
   consistent with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions.
   
   
   
   606.5 	Violation of standards set forth in this section, as a result of
   unavoidable malfunction, despite the conscientious employment of control
   practices, shall constitute an affirmative defense on which the discharger
   shall bear the burden of proof. Periods of malfunction shall cease to be
   unavoidable malfunctions if reasonable steps are not taken to eliminate the
   malfunction within a reasonable time.
   
   
   
   606.6 	Owners and operators of stationary sources and fuel-burning equipment
   shall ensure that persons actually participating in the maintenance and
   operation of sources and equipment are adequately trained and supervised so as
   to minimize the production of emissions during operation.
   
   
   
   606.7 	Where the presence of uncombined water is the only reason for failure
   of an emission to meet the requirements of this section, this section shall
   not be applicable.
   
   
   
   606.8 	The provisions of this section shall not apply to visible emissions
   from interior fire places, or from sources set forth in § 604.2, or when
   steam is used to blow oil from a burner as the last phase of shutting down the
   burner.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Section 3 of the District of Columbia Air Pollution Control Act of
   1984, D.C. Law 5-165, § 606, 32 DCR 565, 612 (February 1, 1985); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 12890 (November 9, 2012).
