                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTROL OF FUGITIVE DUST (ยง 20-605)

605.1. Reasonable precautions shall be taken to minimize the emission of any
   fugitive dust into the outdoor atmosphere. The reasonable precautions shall
   include, but not be limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	In the case of unpaved roads, unpaved roadways, and unpaved parking lots;
   
   
   
   (1)	Use of binders, chemicals, or water in sufficient quantities and at
   sufficient frequencies to prevent the visible emission of dust due to the
   movement of vehicles or of the wind; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Prompt clean-up of any dirt, earth, or other material from the vicinity of
   the road, roadway, or lot which has been transported from the road, roadway,
   or lot due to anthropogenic activity or due to natural forces.
   
   
   
   (b)	In the case of paved roads, paved roadways, and paved parking lots:
   Maintenance of the road, roadway, lot, or paved shoulder in a reasonably clean
   condition through reasonably frequent use of water, sweepers, brooms, or other
   means, through reasonably frequent removal of accumulated dirt from curb-side
   gutters, through reasonably prompt repair of pavement, or through any other
   means;
   
   
   
   (c)	In the case of vehicles transporting dusty material or material which is
   likely to become dusty:
   
   
   
   (1)	Fully covering the material in question, with a tarpaulin or other
   material; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Operation, maintenance, and loading of the vehicle, distribution of the
   loaded material on or in the vehicle, and limiting the quantity of material
   loaded on or in the vehicle, so that there will be no spillage of the material
   onto the roads;
   
   
   
   (d)	In the case of vehicles which accumulate dirt on the wheels,
   undercarriages, and other parts of the vehicle, due to the movement of the
   vehicle on dusty, dirty or muddy surfaces: Water washing of all of the dirty
   parts of the vehicle to thoroughly remove the dirt before or immediately after
   the vehicle leaves the dusty, dirty, or muddy surface;
   
   
   
   (e)	In the case of the demolition of buildings or structures: Use, to the
   extent possible, of water;
   
   
   
   (f)	In the case of removal of demolition debris which is dusty or likely to
   become dusty: Use of water to thoroughly wet the material before moving or
   removing the material and keeping it wet or otherwise in a dust-free condition
   until eventual disposal;
   
   
   
   (g)	In the case of loading and unloading of dusty material and in the case
   where dry sand-blasting or dry abrasive cleaning is necessary: Use of enclosed
   areas or hoods, vents, and fabric filters. If it is shown to the satisfaction
   of the Mayor that use of enclosed areas, hoods, vents, and fabric filters is
   not possible, alternate control techniques acceptable to the Mayor and
   designed to minimize the emissions to the extent possible shall be utilized;
   and
   
   
   
   (h)	In the case of stockpiles of dusty material: Use, where possible, of
   closed silos, closed bins or other enclosures which are adequately vented to
   fabric filters. Where the use of closed silos, closed bins, or other
   enclosures is not possible, thorough wetting of the material before loading
   onto the stockpile and keeping the stockpile wetted, covered, or otherwise in
   a non-dusty condition.

   605.2. The emission of fugitive dust from the following is prohibited:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any material handling, screening, crushing, grinding, conveying, mixing,
   or other industrial-type operation or process;
   
   
   
   (b)	Heater-planers in repairing asphaltic concrete pavements;
   
   
   
   (c)	Portable tar-melters, unless close-fitting lids, in good repair, for the
   tar-pots are available and are used;
   
   
   
   (d)	The ventilation of any tunnelling operation; or
   
   
   
   (e)	The cleaning of exposed surfaces through the use of compressed gases.
   
   
   
   605.3.	All persons shall comply with the provisions of this section and those
   of the Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act of 1977, (D.C. Law 2-23).

   605.4. In those circumstances where it is not possible to comply with specific
   provisions of both this section and the Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control
   Act of 1977 (D.C. Law 2-23), the provisions of the Soil Erosion an
   Sedimentation Control Act of 1977 (D.C. Law 2-23), shall prevail.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Section 3 of the District of Columbia Air Pollution Control Act of
   1984, D.C. Law 5-165, ยง 605, 32 DCR 565, 610 (February 1, 1985).
