                                  DC REGULATIONS

JOBS ELIGIBLE FOR INCENTIVES (ยง 7-702)

702.1. Jobs to be approved for incentives shall meet the following
   requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provide for the development of job skills which lead to
   participants&#8217; future economic self-sufficiency;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be designed, whenever applicable, to accommodate academic credit and its
   prerequisites; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Not be subsidized at a rate which exceeds the established federal minimum
   wage. This requirement shall not preclude an employer from adding funds to
   offer a prevailing entrance wage.

   702.2. Employment opportunities under this program may be provided by the
   District of Columbia Government, the private sector, through grants to and
   contracts with, non-profit or profitmaking organizations, associations,
   institutions, or businesses.

   702.3. Participant wage rates shall being in conformity with all federal and
   local laws and in no event shall the wage rate be less than the higher of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The minimum wage rate specified in ยง 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards
   Act; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The minimum wage rate prescribed by applicable state or District laws and
   regulations.

   702.4. In order to assure meaningful jobs, the Director shall approve only
   jobs which in the Director&#8217;s judgment will provide marketable skills and
   enhance the goals of. the In-School Employment Program.

   702.5. The employer shall be reimbursed at the agreed upon subsidized wage
   level and fringe benefits exclusive of overtime, premium pay, or other labor
   cost until the completion of thirty-six (36) weeks of subsidizied employment
   or for the duration of the program whichever comes first.

   702.6. Participating employers under the Act shall comply with the following
   laws:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Human Rights Law of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Equal Pay Act;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Rehabilitation Act;
   
   
   
   (e)	Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Any other applicable non-discriminatory laws.
