                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPLAINT PROCEDURES (ยง 7-708)

708.1. Complaints may be brought by an individual or organization including,
   but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Program participants;
   
   
   
   (b)	Employers;
   
   
   
   (c)	Contractors;
   
   
   
   (d)	Staff of the employer;
   
   
   
   (e)	Applicants for participation;
   
   
   
   (f)	Labor unions; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Community based organizations.

   708.2. With the exception of complaints alleging fraud, forgery, or other
   criminal activity, the filing of a complaint shall be made within ten (10)
   days of the alleged occurrence.

   708.3. Participants shall be provided, upon enrollment into the In-School
   Employment Program, a written description of the complaint procedures,
   including notification of their right to file a complaint and instructions on
   how to file.

   708.4. The complaint resolution procedure shall include provision for the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Opportunity to file a complaint. Each complaint shall be writing;
   
   
   
   (b)	Opportunity for informal resolution of the complaint;
   
   
   
   (c)	Written notification of an opportunity for a hearing when an informal
   resolution has not been accomplished. The notice shall establish the procedure
   for requesting a hearing and shall describe the elements in the hearing
   procedures, including those set forth in paragraph (f) of this subsection;
   
   
   
   (d)	Opportunity to amend the complaint prior to a hearing;
   
   
   
   (e)	Opportunity for a hearing within twenty (20) days of filing the complaint;
   and
   
   
   
   (f)	A final, written decision on the complaint which shall be made within
   thirty (30) days of the complaint and shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The reason(s) for the decision; and
   
   
   
   (2)	A statement that the procedures delineated in this section have been
   followed.

   708.5. A hearing, when requested, shall be provided within twenty (20) days
   after filing the complaint. The hearing procedures shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Written notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing, a description
   of the manner in which it will be conducted, and the issue(s) to be decided;
   
   
   
   (b)	Opportunity to be accompanied by a representative;
   
   
   
   (c)	Opportunity to bring witnesses and documentary evidence;
   
   
   
   (d)	Opportunity to have relevant documents produced by the In-School
   Employment Program or its components;
   
   
   
   (e)	Opportunity to question witnesses;
   
   
   
   (f)	The right to an impartial Hearing Officer selected by the Director; and
   
   
   
   (g)	A written decision which shall include a summary of facts, the reason(s)
   for the decision, and a statement of remedies to be applied.

   708.6. Appeals from decisions of the Hearing Officer may be filed with the
   Director.

   708.7. Whenever a complaint is made, it shall be investigated if it alleges
   that any person, participant employer, or contract is failing to comply with
   the requirements of the Act, a derivative agreement, or these regulations.

   708.8. If the Director, Hearing or Investigation Officer determines that a
   complaint, an investigation, or testimony involves criminal activity which may
   violate the laws of the District of Columbia, the United States or other
   jurisdiction, this determination shall be communicated directly to the
   appropriate law enforcement agency for action.

   708.9. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Director from requiring that
   a system of grievance processing and just adjudication be implemented by
   employers for the use of participating youth.

   708.10. Nothing in this section shall prohibit a participating youth from
   filing a complaint or request for investigations and hearings. Complaints
   shall be maintained in the Office of the Director.

   708.11. Records of all investigations, hearings, complaints and request for
   investigation shall be maintained in the Office of the Director.
