                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 7-799)

799.1. When used in this Chapter, each of the following terms shall have the
   meaning ascribed:
   
   
   
   Academic Credit &#8211; the credit for education, training or work experience
   applicable towards a secondary school diploma, consistent with applicable D.C.
   laws, regulations, and policy, and the requirements of an accredited
   educational agency or institution.
   
   
   
   Act &#8211; the Youth Employment of 1979 (D.C. Law 3-46).
   
   
   
   Alternative Working Arrangements &#8211; work schedules which deviate from the
   regular work week. Arrangements may include staggered hours, flexible hours,
   flex-time, compressed work weeks, part-time employment or job and work
   sharing.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of Employment Services or the Director&#8217;s
   designee, contract officer, representative or contractual agents.
   
   
   
   Economically Disadvantaged &#8211; a person who is one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A member of a family which receives public assistance;
   
   
   
   (b)	A member of a family whose income during the previous six (6) months on an
   annualized basis was such that:
   
   
   
   (1)	The family would have qualified for public assistance if they had applied
   for the assistance;
   
   
   
   (2)	The income does not exceed the poverty level; or
   
   
   
   (3)	The income does not exceed the seventy percent (70%) of the lower living;
   
   
   
   (c)	A foster child on whose behalf federal and District Government payments
   are made; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A person whose status presents significant barriers to employment such as
   the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A client of a sheltered workship;
   
   
   
   (2)	A handicapped individual;
   
   
   
   (3)	A person residing in an institution or facility providing twenty-four (24)
   hour support, such as a prison, a hospital or community care facility; or
   
   
   
   (4)	A regular outpatient of a mental hospital, rehabilitation, facility or
   similar institution.
   
   
   
   Family &#8211; one (1) or more persons living in a single residence who are
   related to each other by blood, marriage, or adoption. A step-child or
   step-parent shall be considered to be related by marriage.
   
   
   
   Handicapped Individual &#8211; any person who has a physical or mental
   disability which constitutes a substantial barrier to employment and who can
   benefit from services under this program.
   
   
   
   In-School &#8211; the status of being enrolled full-time and attending a
   secondary, trade, technical or vocational school. To maintain one&#8217;s
   in-school status an individual shall be currently enrolled and in regular
   attendance during the semester or quarter, or have successfully completed the
   previous semester if applying for the In-School program after the summer
   vacation.
   
   
   
   In-School Youth &#8211; a person, fourteen (14) through twenty-one (21) who is
   as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is currently enrolled full-time in, and attending a secondary trade,
   technical or vocational school; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Has not completed high school and is attending or scheduled to attend, on
   a full-time basis, a program leading to a secondary school diploma. Full-time
   attendance shall be defined by the requirements of the D.C. Board of
   Education.
   
   
   
   Job Restructuring &#8211; the procedure which includes the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Identifying the separate tasks that comprise a job or group of jobs;
   
   
   
   (b)	Developing a career ladder which builds upward from the new positions
   containing the lesser skilled tasks to regular jobs requiring increased
   skills. A restructured job differs from the original one in terms of skills,
   knowledge, abilities and experience needed to perform the work.
   
   
   
   Participant &#8211; an individual who is as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Declared eligible upon enrollment; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Receiving employment and training funded under the Act following
   enrollment.
   
   
   
   Participant Employers &#8211; both profitmaking and non-profitmaking persons,
   associations, partnerships, and corporations, as well as the District of
   Columbia Government and other public agencies which enter into formal
   agreements with the Director for participation in the In-School employment
   Program.
   
   
   
   Public Assistance &#8211; a federal or District Government cash payment for
   which eligibility is determined by a need or income test.
   
   
   
   Resident &#8211; a person who has permanent dwelling or home in the District
   of Columbia. A District resident shall also include those persons who are
   permanent resident aliens, or aliens who have been permitted to accept
   permanent employment in the United States by the U.S. Immigration and
   Naturalization Service.
   
   
   
   Unsubsidized Placement &#8211; employment secured for or by a participant
   which is not subsidized by funds from the Act.
   
   
   
   Work Experience &#8211; work consisting of a short-term or part-time
   employment assignment with an employer or employing agency. It shall be
   designed to enhance the employability of individuals through the development
   of good work habits and basic work skills. It utilized for those students who
   have either never worked or who have not worked for an extended period of
   time, such as students, youth in transition from school to employment, or
   youth who have no definite employment goals.
