                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPAIR; OUTAGE AND RECEPTION PROBLEMS (ยง 15-3111)

3111.1. A cable operator shall have technicians on call twenty-four (24) hours
   per day, seven (7) days per week, including legal holidays, to address and
   repair system outages and other service problems.

   3111.2. A cable operator shall maintain sufficient repair and maintenance
   capacity so as to be able to correct outages and repair service problems
   within the time periods identified by this subsection.

   3111.3. A cable operator shall correct a system outage (loss of reception on
   all channels affecting five (5) or more subscribers) within four (4) hours
   after a cable operator receives the fifth (5th) subscriber&#8217;s call
   regarding the outage, except as provided in subsection 3111.8. If a cable
   operator fails to comply with this provision, the cable operator shall grant
   each affected subscriber, upon request, a credit equal to, at least, one (1)
   day worth of the monthly charge for any affected service or service tier for
   any period exceeding four (4) hours in which the outage continues during any
   twenty-four (24) hour period, and automatically, without request from
   subscribers, for any period exceeding twelve (12) hours that the outage
   continues during any twenty-four (24) hour period.

   3111.4. A cable operator shall correct a service interruption (the loss of
   picture or sound on one or more channels affecting less than five (5)
   subscribers) within twenty-four (24) hours, except as provided in subsection
   3111.8. If a cable operator fails to comply with this provision, the cable
   operator shall grant each affected subscriber a credit equal to, at least, one
   (1) day worth of the monthly charge for any affected service or service tier
   for each subsequent day on which the service interruption continues.

   3111.5. If a system outage or service interruption materially affects a
   pay-per-view or special event for any period of time, a cable operator shall
   grant the affected subscribers a credit equal to the full value of the
   service.

   3111.6. A reception problem (reception that an affected subscriber reasonably
   determines is unsatisfactory, unless a cable operator demonstrates that the
   signals transmitted to the subscriber are in compliance with applicable
   performance standards regarding video or audio signal quality) or other
   service problem of either picture or sound quality shall be repaired within
   forty-eight (48) hours after a cable operator receives a request for repair
   service. If a cable operator fails to comply with this provision, the cable
   operator shall grant affected subscribers a credit equal to, at least, one (1)
   day worth of the monthly charge for any affected service or service tier for
   each subsequent day on which the reception problem continues.

   3111.7. A cable operator shall initiate investigative action in response to a
   service call regarding a problem other than a system outage or a service
   interruption not later than the next day after notification unless the
   subscriber requests an appointment at a later date.

   3111.8. A cable operator shall correct a system outage or service interruption
   due to a cause beyond the control of a cable operator within forty-eight (48)
   hours after the condition has ceased.

   3111.9. OCT shall excuse a cable operator&#8217;s failure to correct a system
   outage or service interruption or to a make repair within the stated time
   periods if OCT reasonably agrees with a cable operator that correcting the
   outage or making the repair was not reasonably possible within the permitted
   time period.

   3111.10. A complaint shall be considered resolved when signals received by the
   subscriber have been brought into compliance with applicable federal
   standards.

   3111.11. A repair or corrective action that the cable operator knows does not
   require a cable operator to enter a subscriber&#8217;s premises shall not
   require a subscriber to make an appointment, shall not require the subscriber
   to be available on-site, and shall not be delayed on account of a cable
   operator&#8217;s inability to contact the subscriber. A cable operator shall
   complete the repair or corrective action within the time limits specified in
   this section.

   3111.12. A cable operator shall take timely measures to post an appropriate
   message, including identifiable locations, geographic areas or neighborhoods
   affected, on its telephone system to notify subscribers of system outages. The
   message shall also provide instructions for subscribers whose converters or
   navigation devices may not be functioning as a result of the system outage.

   3111.13. A cable operator shall not charge a subscriber for a service call to
   his or her address to perform repair or maintenance work, if the cause of the
   work is the cable operator&#8217;s fault.

   3111.14. For the purpose of automatic credits addressed in this section 3111,
   a cable operator shall apply credits to accounts of all subscribers within an
   identifiable location or geographical area.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 6797 (July 19, 2002).
