                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUBSCRIPTION INFORMATION (ยง 15-3102)

3102.1. A cable operator shall provide written information in a complete and
   comprehensible manner to all subscribers at least annually, at the time of
   installation of service, and upon request, in each of the following areas:
   
   
   
   (a)	A listing and description of the cable services provided by the cable
   operator;
   
   
   
   (b)	A list of channel locations for all cable services;
   
   
   
   (c)	A listing of all rates, terms, and conditions for each cable service and
   service tier, each type of equipment, and all other charges, including without
   limitation, charges for installation, connection of additional outlets,
   equipment deposits, reconnecting service, VCR connections, relocating cable
   outlets, and returned checks;
   
   
   
   (d)	The location(s), hours of operation, and telephone number(s) for each
   customer service center;
   
   
   
   (e)	The location(s) and hours of operation of each payment center;
   
   
   
   (f)	The telephone number(s) and address of a cable operator&#8217;s customer
   service department and corporate office, accompanied by a brief description of
   the services and information that may be obtained by dialing each number;
   
   
   
   (g)	The website address for a cable operator&#8217;s website used for customer
   service purposes, accompanied by a brief description of the services and
   information that may be obtained by accessing the website;
   
   
   
   (h)	Notice of the availability of subscriber terminal equipment and the
   procedure to obtain the equipment, including, but not limited to, wireless
   remote control devices, parental control devices, digital converters, and
   closed caption decoders;
   
   
   
   (i)	A general explanation of other communications devices that may be used in
   conjunction with the system, including, but not limited to, video cassette
   recorders, remote control devices, cable modems, v-chip technology, closed
   captioning decoders, and parental control devices;
   
   
   
   (j)	Notice of the commercial availability of universal remotes and other
   compatible equipment clearly indicating that a list of specific brands and
   models, consistent with 47 CFR ยง 76.1622(b)(3) as amended from time to time,
   shall be provided to a subscriber upon request;
   
   
   
   (k)	The terms for rental equipment, including procedures for the return of
   equipment and the subscriber&#8217;s liability for lost, stolen, or damaged
   equipment;
   
   
   
   (l)	A description of a cable operator&#8217;s billing and collection
   procedures, including an applicable policy for late fees, returned check
   charges, and credit balances;
   
   
   
   (m)	The steps for resubscribing to cable service after an involuntary
   termination of service;
   
   
   
   (n)	The policy governing service outages and repair service, including the
   time periods by which repairs for reception problems and other service
   problems shall be made;
   
   
   
   (o)	The procedure for the resolution of billing disputes;
   
   
   
   (p)	A policy of a cable operator concerning credits for customer service
   violations, including outages and reception problems;
   
   
   
   (q)	The procedure for return of deposits;
   
   
   
   (r)	The procedure and charges, if any, for service changes, including, but not
   limited to upgrade, downgrade, or termination of cable services;
   
   
   
   (s)	All installation and maintenance policies;
   
   
   
   (t)	A notice that subscribers may pay bills in person at a cable
   operator&#8217;s customer service center(s) in the District or other payment
   location(s);
   
   
   
   (u)	A listing of special services for customers with disabilities, if any;
   
   
   
   (v)	A description of a cable operator&#8217;s procedure for the resolution of
   subscriber complaints, including providing contact information (address, phone
   number, and website address) of OCT for unresolved complaints;
   
   
   
   (w)	The policy concerning subscriber privacy;
   
   
   
   (x)	An announcement that all cable operator employees and contractors who come
   into contact with subscribers at the subscriber&#8217;s premises wear an
   identification card that includes the employee&#8217;s name and photograph;
   and
   
   
   
   (y)	Additional information to subscribers required by applicable law or
   franchise agreement.

   3102.2. A cable operator shall post on its website and shall display at
   customer service center(s) at least one copy of the information required by
   subsection 3102.1.

   3102.3. A cable operator shall include on its monthly bill a notice that
   complaints or inquiries not satisfactorily handled by the cable operator may
   be referred to OCT.

   3102.4. A cable operator shall provide a copy of all subscription and
   solicitation information to be distributed pursuant to subsection 3102.1 to
   OCT, at least ten (10) days before distributing it to the first subscriber for
   review and comment, so that OCT may ensure that the information contained
   therein complies with applicable law and is not misleading. OCT may order the
   cable operator to correct the subscription information if OCT determines that
   the information does not comply with applicable law or is misleading.

   3102.5. All promotional materials advertising cable services to subscribers
   and the general public shall accurately disclose rates and terms.

   3102.6. A cable operator shall clearly and accurately disclose to subscribers
   prices and terms for all services, including the prices of pay-per-view and
   pay-per-event programming before an order is accepted.

   3102.7. A cable operator shall provide a written confirmation of any order,
   detailing all prices and terms and conditions, as part of the
   subscriber&#8217;s next bill.

   3102.8. In order that subscribers are fully apprised of the charges they may
   incur, a cable operator shall note that advertised rates are subject to
   additional taxes and fees.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 6797 (July 19, 2002).
