                                  DC REGULATIONS

CUSTOMER SERVICE CENTERS (ยง 15-3104)

3104.1. A cable operator shall maintain at least one (1) customer service
   center within the District of Columbia, accessible to the public, that can
   fully accommodate bill payments, return or exchange of equipment, subscriber
   complaints, and in-person discussion with customer service representatives.

   3104.2. The customer service center(s) shall be open at least ten hours per
   day on weekdays, with evening hours on at least two days, and for at least six
   (6) hours on Saturdays, except on legal holidays recognized by the District or
   special occasions during which a customer service center(s) is closed for
   unusual circumstances pursuant to subsection 3104.3.

   3104.3. A cable operator may temporarily close its customer service center(s)
   due to unusual circumstances (for example, staff meetings) only with the
   approval of OCT. On such occasions, the cable operator shall provide OCT at
   least three (3) business days notice of the proposed closure. The cable
   operator shall also notify subscribers at least two (2) days in advance of the
   proposed closure. In the case of an emergency closing for which advance notice
   is impractical, a cable operator shall notify OCT immediately.

   3104.4. A cable operator shall provide notice to subscribers regarding hours
   or dates when its customer service center(s) will be closed for legal holidays
   recognized by the District or special occasions when its customer service
   center(s) is closed for unusual circumstances, pursuant to subsection 3104.3
   during hours when its customer service center is ordinarily open. On these
   occasions, a cable operator shall provide notice via message on its telephone
   system and post a sign at the door of the customer service center(s).

   3104.5. A cable operator shall make available a trained supervisor or manager
   in all customer service centers to meet in person with subscribers or other
   persons requesting a meeting.

   3104.6. A cable operator shall post at its customer service center(s) hours of
   operation.

   3104.7. A cable operator shall place a payment drop box or payment slot
   directly outside of its customer service center(s) or provide other means for
   payment after business hours. A payment shall be processed, at a minimum,
   before close of business of the next business day.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 6797 (July 19, 2002).
