                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE (ยง 15-3101)

3101.1. In addition to notice required elsewhere in this chapter 31, a cable
   operator shall provide written notice to the Office of Cable Television
   (&#8220;OCT&#8221;) and to all subscribers at least thirty (30) days prior to
   the effective date of any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A change in a programming service or channels including the
   discontinuation of an existing service, addition of a new service, change in
   the channel location of any service, or an increase or decrease in the number
   of hours a service is carried over the cable operator&#8217;s system;
   
   
   
   (b)	A change in the rates, charges, terms, or conditions for the receipt of
   service or equipment;
   
   
   
   (c)	A change in the location or hours of operation of a customer service
   center;
   
   
   
   (d)	A change in billing practices; or
   
   
   
   (e)	A change of the policies or other information set forth pursuant to
   subsection 3102.1.

   3101.2. Any notice required by subsection 3101.1 shall specify, as applicable,
   the service or services affected; the new rate, charge, term, or condition;
   the effect of the change; and the effective date of the change. A notice of a
   change in programming services or channel locations shall include a concise
   description of the new programming service and the specific channel location
   of that programming service. In addition, should the channel locations of
   other services be affected by the introduction of a new service, the
   information shall also be included in the notice.

   3101.3. A cable operator shall provide to OCT annually, by no later than
   December 15 of each year, a listing of its closings or holidays for the
   upcoming year.

   3101.4. The initial notice to subscribers regarding a change subject to
   subsection 3101.1(a) and (b) shall include an advertisement placed in a daily
   periodical or newspaper of general distribution (for example, The Washington
   Post). The notice shall also be placed in a Spanish daily periodical. A cable
   operator shall also provide written notice of changes to subscribers in
   billing messages, inserts, or other communications prior to the date of the
   service change.  A cable operator shall provide a copy of such notice to OCT
   upon the request of OCT.

   3101.5. A cable operator shall post notice of the service changes at its
   customer service center and on its website at least thirty (30) days prior to
   the proposed change and shall maintain the notices until at least fourteen
   (14) days after the date of the service change.

   3101.6. A cable operator may provide electronic notice (for example, scrolling
   messages) or advertisement spots of programming service changes or rate
   changes on local origination channels or on channels used for local
   advertisement insertions.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 6797 (July 19, 2002).
