                                  DC REGULATIONS

INSTALLATION (ยง 15-3109)

3109.1. A cable operator shall complete a requested standard installation and
   installation of other additional services, including requests for additional
   outlets, service upgrades, or other connections (for example digital service
   or cable modem), within seven (7) days from the date a subscriber places the
   order, unless the subscriber requests a later date. A cable operator shall
   complete a requested installation in a multi-dwelling unit building not
   currently wired for residents to receive any service from the cable operator
   within thirty (30) days. Consistent with applicable law or franchise
   agreement, any installation to a multi-dwelling unit building that exceeds the
   time limits must be approved by OCT. If a cable operator does not perform a
   standard installation within the applicable time periods stated above, the
   cable operator shall waive all installation fees or associated charges.

   3109.2. A cable operator shall complete a nonstandard installation within a
   period agreed upon by the cable operator and subscriber. A nonstandard
   installation, as defined by an applicable franchise agreement, shall include
   all installations for commercial accounts, subject to applicable law. If the
   subscriber requests a nonstandard installation, a cable operator shall provide
   the subscriber, in advance, with an estimate of total installation cost and an
   estimated date of completion.

   3109.3. Before or upon installation, a cable operator shall provide a
   subscriber a copy of the service contract between the cable operator and
   subscriber, if any exists.

   3109.4. To the extent reasonably possible, a cable operator shall observe and
   comply with a subscriber&#8217;s preference as to the cable operator&#8217;s
   point of entry into the subscriber&#8217;s premises and a building
   owner&#8217;s preference as to the point of entry into a building. The cable
   operator may impose a reasonable charge upon a subscriber who requests a
   custom construction procedure (for example, wall fishing). A cable operator
   shall make cable runs in building interiors as unobtrusive as possible.

   3109.5. A person who requests the installation or activation of cable service
   or any other service from a cable operator shall have the right at no charge
   to rescind the request at any time prior to physical installation at the
   subscriber&#8217;s premises or the commencement of service. However, the right
   of rescission shall expire once the person actually receives the requested
   service.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 6797 (July 19, 2002).
