                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION PROCESS (ยง 29-7501)

7501.1. Each application shall be in writing on a form prescribed by the
   Department and signed by the applicant under penalty of perjury. If the
   applicant is married and living with a spouse, both spouses shall sign the
   application as an applicant unit (hereinafter &#8220;applicant&#8221;).

   7501.2. An authorized representative may apply on behalf of the applicant, if
   the applicant provides a written and signed statement stating why the
   applicant cannot apply in person and the name and address of the person
   authorized to act on the applicant&#8217;s behalf.

   7501.3. The Department shall provide application forms and the provider of
   services shall accept applications from each applicant who requests
   assistance.

   7501.4. At the time of application, each applicant shall be provided with a
   clear, concise, written notice containing the applicant&#8217;s rights and
   responsibilities and the provider&#8217;s responsibilities with respect to the
   Program.

   7501.5. As a condition of eligibility of receipt of funds, all applicants must
   sign a document acknowledging receipt of the notice of applicant&#8217;s
   rights and responsibilities and the provider&#8217;s responsibilities and a
   release form authorizing the provider to obtain or verify information
   necessary to processing the application.

   7501.6. If, pursuant to 7503.2, the provider determines that case management
   is necessary to ensure that the applicant addresses the circumstances which
   led to the need for emergency rental assistance, the applicant, as a condition
   of eligibility, shall agree to participate in such case management. Failure to
   agree to or cooperate in such case management may result in ineligibility.

   7501.7. Each applicant shall cooperate fully in establishing his or her
   eligibility, the nature of the emergency, and the extent of the need. This
   shall include, but not be limited to, providing documentation or collateral
   proof of:
   
   
   
   (a)	Household composition;
   
   
   
   (b)	Income and assets;
   
   
   
   (c)	Household expenses; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Facts and circumstances surrounding rental arrearages.

   7501.8. The provider shall give to each applicant a written request specifying
   the information needed to complete the application and the provider shall
   discuss with the applicant how to obtain the information. The application is
   complete when all required information is furnished.

   7501.9. If requested by an applicant with a disability, or the authorized
   representative of an applicant with a disability, the provider shall assist
   such applicant or authorized representative with any aspect of the application
   process necessary to ensure that the applicant with a disability has an equal
   opportunity to submit an application.

   7501.10. The provider may use documents, telephone conversations, personal and
   collateral interviews, reports, correspondence, and conferences to verify
   applicant information.

   7501.11. The provider shall complete the eligibility and assistance
   determination in as short a time as possible but not later than ten (10)
   calendar days after the date of a completed application. The provider shall
   not be responsible for delays caused by:
   
   
   
   (a)	The applicant&#8217;s failure to supply information to document facts
   stated in the completed application without which eligibility cannot be
   determined;
   
   
   
   (b)	The inability to contact the applicant;
   
   
   
   (c)	Evidence of misrepresentation in the application;
   
   
   
   (d)	Refusal of a landlord to accept payments;
   
   
   
   (e)	Delay by a third party from whom the provider has requested information
   and over whom the provider has no control; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Any other delay in receipt of information or documentation necessary to
   complete the application over which the provider has no control.

   7501.12. If the emergency is expected to occur in less than ten (10) calendar
   days following the date of application, the provider shall take all reasonable
   steps to process the application in an expedited manner in time to resolve the
   emergency, if the applicant meets all eligibility criteria and a delay in
   processing the application is not caused by the failure of the applicant to
   provide documentation necessary for making an eligibility or assistance
   determination.

   7501.13. If an applicant is determined eligible for emergency rental
   assistance, the provider shall give to the applicant a Notice of Eligibility
   and Assistance Determination. This notice shall include, but need not be
   limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	A clear statement of the eligibility determination;
   
   
   
   (b)	A clear and detailed statement of the amount of the emergency rental
   assistance for which the applicant unit has been determined eligible and the
   computation of assistance pursuant to section 7504;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any requirement needed from the recipient to authorize the provider to
   proceed with the disbursement of the emergency rental assistance grant to the
   appropriate vendors as necessary to alleviate the emergency; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A clear and complete statement of the client&#8217;s right to appeal the
   eligibility or assistance determination through fair hearing and
   administrative review proceedings pursuant to section 7510, including the
   appropriate deadlines for instituting the appeal and the procedural rights the
   applicant will have during the appeals process.

   7501.14. If an applicant is determined ineligible, the provider shall give to
   the applicant a Notice of Denial of Eligibility. This notice shall include,
   but need not be limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	A clear statement of the denial of eligibility;
   
   
   
   (b)	A clear and detailed statement of the factual basis for the denial;
   
   
   
   (c)	A reference to the regulation or policy pursuant to which denial was made;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	A clear and complete statement of the client&#8217;s right to appeal the
   determination or denial through fair hearing and administrative review
   proceedings pursuant to section 7510, including the appropriate deadlines for
   instituting the appeal and the procedural rights the applicant will have
   during the appeals process.

   7501.15. An application shall be considered abandoned if the applicant has not
   obtained and provided to the provider the required information for eligibility
   and assistance determination within sixty (60) days.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 12622 (December 28, 2007).
