                                  DC REGULATIONS

ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA (ยง 29-7503)

7503.1. In order to be eligible for assistance under this program, each
   applicant shall meet the following criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be presented with an emergency as defined in section 7599;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be part of an applicant unit with an emergency with at least one member
   who is:
   
   
   
   (1)	A minor child age eighteen (18) years or younger;
   
   
   
   (2)	Age sixty (60) years or older; or
   
   
   
   (3)	A person with a disability.
   
   
   
   (c)	Demonstrate that he or she has no other available resources for resolving
   the emergency, including resources actually available from a community
   resource, but excluding those exempted in section 7503.13; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Demonstrate that the provision of emergency rental assistance services
   will substantially, if not entirely, alleviate the emergency during the thirty
   (30) day period immediately following the authorization of payment. If the
   permissible assistance payment does not entirely eliminate the emergency, the
   applicant shall provide reliable, convincing information that the remaining
   necessary amount is actually available from another source or that the
   landlord will accept a partial payment or longer-term repayment plan, which is
   within the applicant&#8217;s financial means to execute. Failure to
   demonstrate that the emergency can be resolved shall result in a denial of
   eligibility for emergency rental assistance.

   7503.2. An applicant shall agree to and participate in case management
   services, if the provider determines that the circumstances leading to the
   emergency remain unresolved. Failure to agree to or cooperate in such case
   management may result in ineligibility.

   7503.3. An applicant shall be living in the District of Columbia at the time
   of application.

   7503.4. The applicant shall be considered to be living in the District if he
   or she:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is maintaining a home in the District as his or her principal residence;
   or
   
   
   
   (b)	Is homeless, physically present in the District, and not a resident of
   another state.

   7503.5. An adult applicant shall be denied emergency rental assistance if the
   emergency is the result of his or her refusal without &#8220;good cause&#8221;
   to accept employment or training for employment.

   7503.6. An applicant shall be considered to have refused employment or
   training if the applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Voluntarily quit employment or a bona fide training program within three
   (3) months prior to application; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Rejected an employment or a bona fide training program opportunity within
   the three (3) months prior to the application.

   7503.7. &#8220;Good Cause&#8221; reasons for voluntarily quitting a job or not
   participating in an employment training program include circumstances beyond
   the individual&#8217;s control, such as, but not limited to, the following,
   when the applicant can show, with reliable or credible information, that:
   
   
   
   (a)	Wages are below the minimum wage;
   
   
   
   (b)	The applicant is physically or mentally unable to perform the work or gain
   access to the worksite;
   
   
   
   (c)	Working conditions violate health, safety, or worker&#8217;s compensation
   regulations and present a substantial risk to health or safety;
   
   
   
   (d)	The employer discriminated against the applicant based on race, color,
   religion, national original, sex, age, marital status, personal appearance,
   sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, familial status, family
   responsibilities, matriculation, political affiliation, genetic information,
   disability, source of income or place of residence or business in violation of
   D.C. Official Code ยง 2-1401.01 et seq. (D.C. Law 2-38, effective December 13,
   1977);
   
   
   
   (e)	The requirements of the job would be contrary to his or her religious
   beliefs;
   
   
   
   (f)	There existed a household emergency (including domestic violence);
   
   
   
   (g)	The resignation is recognized by the employer as retirement;
   
   
   
   (h)	Child care, which is necessary for the adult applicant to accept work or
   training, is not available; or
   
   
   
   (i)	The applicant could not maintain work or participate in a training program
   because it was necessary for the applicant to take care of a family member who
   is either ill or has a disability.

   7503.8. The applicant unit&#8217;s combined net income, as specified in
   section 7503.10, in the thirty (30) day period immediately preceding the date
   of application, and non- excluded assets, as specified in section 7503.15, on
   the date of application, must not exceed one hundred and twenty-five percent
   (125%) of the monthly Federal Poverty Level as defined by the U.S. Department
   of Health and Human Services for the specified household size.

   7503.9. The following shall not be counted in calculating income available to
   the applicant unit in the budget month:
   
   
   
   (a)	Discontinued income, unless actually available in the budget month;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any income in-kind including, but not limited to, Food Stamps, Women,
   Infants, and Children Program (WIC), school lunches, homemaker services, and
   benefits received under the Older Americans Act;
   
   
   
   (c)	Deductions from earnings which are limited to actual amounts deducted by
   the employer for federal income tax, D.C. Income Tax, Social Security, Civil
   Service Retirement, life insurance, health insurance and any other deduction
   which is mandatory. Garnishments from wages are not considered mandatory
   deductions and will be counted in the determination of available income;
   
   
   
   (d)	Payments for children in foster care;
   
   
   
   (e)	Vendor payments made by the federal or District governments on behalf of
   the applicant directly to a vendor, except that any Department administered
   Rental Vendor Payments made on behalf of a Temporary Aid for Needy Families
   (TANF) client will be counted as income;
   
   
   
   (f)	Value of Low Income Energy Assistance;
   
   
   
   (g)	Earnings of persons fourteen (14) years of age and under;
   
   
   
   (h)	Earnings from the first eighty (80) hours of employment per month of
   students ages fifteen (15) years or older and enrolled in secondary school;
   
   
   
   (i)	Summer earnings of a student who was enrolled in school when school was
   dismissed for the summer vacation, but has not yet graduated from high school,
   regardless of the number of hours employed;
   
   
   
   (j)	Work incentive payments, training stipends, or allowances to facilitate
   employment;
   
   
   
   (k)	Income from any source which is used to pay court ordered child support in
   the budget month to another household; and
   
   
   
   (l)	Expenses related to self-employment which may be reasonably associated
   with the cost of producing income, such that only net income from the
   self-employment is considered as available to the applicant.

   7503.10. All income of an applicant unit that is not specifically exempted in
   section 7503.9 shall be considered in calculating the income of the applicant
   unit in the budget month.

   7503.11. The following shall be considered in calculating the income of the
   applicant in the budget month:
   
   
   
   (a)	The net amount of ongoing income received during the budget month
   including, but not limited to:
   
   
   
   (1)	Income from a boarder;
   
   
   
   (2)	Earned income;
   
   
   
   (3)	TANF grant;
   
   
   
   (4)	Interim Disability Assistance grant;
   
   
   
   (5)	General Assistance for Children grant;
   
   
   
   (6)	Child support payments received;
   
   
   
   (7)	Social Security retirement, survivors or disability insurance benefits;
   
   
   
   (8)	Alimony;
   
   
   
   (9)	Veterans Administration benefits;
   
   
   
   (10)	Worker&#8217;s compensation benefits, unemployment benefits and other
   governmental unemployment benefits;
   
   
   
   (11)	Payments from private sick and accident insurance plans;
   
   
   
   (12)	Pensions;
   
   
   
   (13)	Retirement benefits;
   
   
   
   (14)	Strike benefits; and
   
   
   
   (15)	Military allotments.
   
   
   
   (b)	The value of a rental vendor payment made to a vendor under the TANF
   program on behalf of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (c)	The net amount of discontinued, sporadic, or lump sum income, if it is
   received in the budget month or has been received in an earlier month and is
   still available to the applicant;
   
   
   
   (d)	The net amount of any proceeds from lottery winnings, cash gifts, or
   loans, except that need-based educational loans are exempt; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The income of a recipient of Supplemental Security Income.

   7503.12. The equity value of all assets, unless specifically exempt under
   section 7503.13, shall be added to the applicant&#8217;s income to determine
   the total amount of resources available to the applicant in the budget month.

   7503.13. The following resources or assets shall not be considered in
   calculating income available in the budget month:
   
   
   
   (a)	The home and surrounding land in which the applicant lives. Surrounding
   land does not include adjoining lots separately taxed and zoned;
   
   
   
   (b)	All household furnishings and all personal belongings;
   
   
   
   (c)	The value of motor vehicles used for transportation;
   
   
   
   (d)	Tools, machinery and other property used for employment or self-
   employment, whether or not in the home;
   
   
   
   (e)	Taxi, truck or similar vehicle necessary for employment or self-
   employment;
   
   
   
   (f)	Cash or money in bank accounts that was obtained from a need-based loan
   made to an applicant for school related expenses;
   
   
   
   (g)	Pre-paid burial plans or cemetery plots; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Money on hand which is specifically earmarked for contribution towards the
   resolution of the crisis.

   7503.14. The value of an asset jointly owned by the applicant and any person
   who is not a member of the applicant unit shall be prorated according to the
   number of owners, unless the applicant can demonstrate a different division
   based on legal ownership.

   7503.15. The following assets and resources shall be considered income
   available to the applicant in the budget month:
   
   
   
   (a)	The equity in all real property except the home and surrounding land in
   which the applicant lives;
   
   
   
   (b)	The equity in any interest in recreational vehicles, including, but not
   limited to, boats, campers, trailers, motorcycles not exempted under section
   7503.14(c), snowmobiles, or aircraft;
   
   
   
   (c)	The equity of any interest in machinery, livestock, or other property or
   items that are not used for employment or self-employment;
   
   
   
   (d)	The loan value available to the applicant in insurance plans or the cash
   or loan value available to the applicant pursuant to an agreement in an escrow
   or trust fund;
   
   
   
   (e)	The cash value of an Individual Retirement Account or another deferred
   compensation plan, or pension funds that have been distributed from a plan and
   are actually available to an applicant;
   
   
   
   (f)	The actual value of cash including, but not limited to, a checking
   account, a savings account, a certificate of deposit, stocks, and bonds;
   
   
   
   (g)	The actual cash value of a non-exempt asset that was converted to cash in
   the thirty (30) days prior to the date of application; and
   
   
   
   (h)	The equity value of non-exempt assets which are sold, transferred, or
   traded for less than fair market value within the twelve (12) months prior to
   the date of application, when there is reason to believe that the action was
   taken for the purpose of becoming eligible for Emergency Rental Assistance.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 12622 (December 28, 2007).
