                                  DC REGULATIONS

OPERATING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO PSPS AND DDSS (§ 31-408)

408.1. Each PSP shall operate in compliance with this chapter and Chapters 6
   and 8 of this title, and other applicable laws.

   408.2. Each DDS that provides dispatch or digital payment for taxicabs shall
   operate in compliance with this chapter and Chapters 8 and 16 of this title,
   and other applicable laws.

   408.3. Each PSP shall comply with all applicable federal and District
   licensing, permitting, registration, anti-discrimination, and taxation
   requirements for a business operating in the District.

   408.4. Each PSP shall either maintain a bona fide administrative office,
   consisting of a physical office in the District, in the same manner required
   of a taxicab company under Chapter 5 of this title and in compliance with all
   laws, rules, and regulations concerning the operation of a place of business
   in the District, or shall maintain a registered agent authorized to accept
   service of process, provided, however, that a PSP operated by a person that
   provides another service regulated by this title requiring such person to
   maintain a bona fide administrative office in the District shall operate such
   bona fide administrative office as a bona fide administrative office for the
   PSP as well.  Each PSP may share a place of business with its affiliated
   businesses provided the place of business is in compliance with this Title and
   other applicable laws, including the requirement for a certificate of
   occupancy provided by the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.

   408.5. Each PSP shall maintain a customer service telephone number for
   passengers with a “202” prefix or a toll-free area code that shall be
   available during normal working hours 365 days per year.

   408.6. Each PSP shall maintain a technical support telephone number for
   vehicle owners and operators with a “202” prefix or a toll-free area code
   that shall be available 24 hours per day, 365 days per year.

   408.7. Each PSP shall operate only in compliance with §§ 508-513 of this
   title, to the same extent as if the PSP were a taxicab company.

   408.8. Each PSP shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Store its business records in a safe and secure manner, and in compliance
   with industry best practices and applicable federal and District law;
   
   
   
   (b)	Make its business records available for inspection and copying during
   regular business hours at the Office or at its bona fide administrative
   office, if maintained, within five (5) business days of its receipt of a
   written demand from the Office; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Retain its business records for at least five (5) years.

   408.9. Each PSP and its owners, operators, officers, employees, agents, and
   representatives shall, at all times, cooperate with the instructions of public
   vehicle enforcement inspectors, other law enforcement officers, other
   authorized officials of the Office, and General Counsel to the Office,
   including a request in connection with a possible violation of this title or
   other applicable law by any person seeking an operator’s identification
   (Face Card) number or a vehicle’s PVIN, previously reported in anonymous
   format under § 603.

   408.10. Each PSP shall notify the Office if it learns of a security breach as
   to which a report must be made pursuant to the Consumer Personal Information
   Security Breach Notification Act of 2006, effective March 8, 2007 (D.C. Law
   16-237; D.C. Official Code §§ 28-3851, et seq.) or other applicable law.

   408.11. Each PSP shall allow each passenger to make his or her choice of
   in-vehicle payment or digital payment, to the extent required by this chapter,
   and no minimum payment shall be required.

   408.12. Each PSP shall remain in compliance with all MTS service and support
   requirements in Chapter 6 and all requirements of this chapter throughout the
   period that its MTS has a current and valid approval from the Office.

   408.13. Each PSP shall pay each taxicab company or independent owner with
   which it is associated the portion of such PSP’s revenue to which such
   taxicab company or independent owner is entitled within twenty-four (24) hours
   or one (1) business day of when such revenue is received by the PSP.

   408.14. PSP inventory requirements.
   
   
   
   		(a)		Each PSP shall maintain an accurate inventory of its associated
   vehicles and operators containing the following information—
   
   
   
   			(1)	For each vehicle:  the name of and contact information for its
   owner(s), including work and cellular telephone numbers; the vehicle’s PVIN,
   make, model, and year of manufacture; certification by the PSP that the
   vehicle is in compliance with the insurance requirements of Chapter 9 of this
   title; an indication of whether the vehicle is wheelchair accessible; an
   indication with whether the vehicle is in active use; and, if the vehicle is
   associated with a taxicab company, association, or fleet, the name of and
   contact information for such company, association, or fleet; and
   
   
   
   			(2)	For each operator:  the name of and contact information for such
   operator, including work and cellular telephone numbers; his or her DCTC
   operator license (Face Card) number; an indication of whether such operator is
   actively using the MTS; and, if he or she is associated with a taxicab
   company, association, or fleet, the name of and contact information for such
   company, association, or fleet.
   
   
   
   		(b)	The Office may remove a vehicle or operator from a PSP’s inventory at
   any time with reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard if a vehicle or
   operator on the inventory is not legally authorized to operate, or in the
   event an MTS unit is not legally authorized for use (such as where a vehicle
   inspection reveals the MTS unit has been tampered with).

   408.15. Passenger surcharge collection and payment by PSPs and DDSs.
   
   
   
   		(a)		Each PSP shall comply with paragraph (c) of this subsection.
   
   
   
   		(b)	Each DDS that is required to collect the taxicab passenger surcharge
   pursuant to § 408.16 shall comply with paragraph (c) of this subsection.
   
   
   
   		(c)	Each person required to comply with this subsection shall:
   
   
   
   		(1)	If it is a DDS, it shall provide a surcharge bond to the Office at the
   time of its application for a certificate of operating authority under Chapter
   16 that includes processing digital payments for taxicabs;
   
   
   
   		(2)	Collect the surcharge as an authorized additional charge under       §
   801.7(b)(2) for each taxicab trip;
   
   
   
   		(3)	Remit to the District, at the end of each seven (7) day period, a
   payment to the D.C. Treasurer in the amount of all the surcharges it has
   collected during such period; and
   
   
   
   				(4)	Send via email at the time of its payment a report to the Office
   certifying its payment to the District and providing a basis for the amount of
   such payment.
   
   
   
   		(d)		Each person that participates in providing service for a taxicab trip,
   regardless of whether it is required by paragraph (a) or (b) to collect and
   pay the passenger surcharge, shall cooperate with the Office to resolve any
   discrepancy concerning a passenger surcharge owed or paid to the District by
   any person, and, if the Office is unable to resolve such discrepancy within
   thirty (30) days, the Office may, in its discretion, make a claim against the
   surcharge bond deposited by any person that participated, as necessary and
   appropriate to satisfy the amount of the discrepancy.
   
   
   
   		(e)		A surcharge bond provided to the Office by a PSP or by a DDS shall be
   returned within thirty (30) days following an event that causes such business
   to lose its operating authority under this title, provided, however, that the
   surcharge bond shall not be returned while there remains a discrepancy
   concerning a passenger surcharge owed or paid to the District by any person.

   408.16. Digital payment requirements.
   
   
   
   		Each approved PSP and each approved DDS shall comply with the following
   requirements for integration of their services, except that this section shall
   not apply to a digital payment where the PSP and the DDS are affiliated
   businesses that comply with the data reporting and passenger surcharge
   requirements of subparagraph (b)(2) of this section.
   
   
   
   		(a)		Integration mandated.
   
   
   
   				(1)	Each PSP that fails to integrate or to maintain integration as
   required by this subsection shall be subject to civil penalties, including the
   suspension or revocation of its operating authority under this title.
   
   
   
   				(2)	Each DDS that fails to integrate or to maintain integration as
   required by this subsection shall be subject to civil penalties, including the
   modification, suspension, or revocation of its operating authority as provided
   in this chapter.  Modification may consist of the suspension or revocation of
   authority to provide dispatch services for taxicabs, including digital
   payment.
   
   
   
   		(b)		Integration requirements.
   
   
   
   				(1)	Each PSP and each DDS shall integrate by complying with the data
   security requirements of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph and by complying
   with the minimum requirements for integration in paragraph (b)(3) of this
   subsection, or by executing an integration agreement pursuant to paragraph
   (b)(4) of this subsection. Failure to integrate and maintain integration as
   required shall subject both businesses to civil penalties.
   
   
   
   				(2)	Data security requirements for all integration.  Integration shall in
   all cases require that the PSP and DDS use, incorporate, or connect to one
   another via technology that meets Open Web Application Security Project
   (“OWASP”) security guidelines, that complies with the current standards of
   the PCI Security Standards Council (“Council”) for payment card data
   security, if such standards exist, and, if not, then with the current
   guidelines of the Council for payment card data security, and, that, for
   direct debit transactions, complies with the rules and guidelines of the
   National Automated Clearing House Association.
   
   
   
   				(3)	Additional minimum requirements for integration.  Where a PSP and a
   DDS do not operate pursuant to an integration agreement executed and approved
   pursuant to paragraph (b)(4), they shall operate either through hardware
   integration under paragraph (b)(3)(A) or through hardware and software
   integration under paragraph (b)(3)(B), as they shall determine.
   
   
   
   				(A)	Hardware integration requirements.  Hardware integration between a PSP
   and DDS shall allow the following events to occur in the following order:
   
   
   
   				(i)	At the conclusion of the trip, the operator shall use the MTS unit to
   notify the PSP of the identity of the DDS approved pursuant to Subsection 1604
   that is processing the digital payment;
   
   
   
   				(ii)	The operator shall manually enter the following information into the
   MTS unit or into the DDS’s payment solution approved pursuant to Chapter 16,
   thereby notifying the DDS of:
   
   
   
   			(A)	The taximeter fare pursuant to § 801.7;
   
   
   
   			(B)	The amount of any gratuity;
   
   
   
   			(C)	The number of passengers;
   
   
   
   			(D)	Any additional information commercially and reasonably required to
   allow the DDS to process the digital payment and to comply fully with this
   paragraph § 408.16 (b)(3)(A);
   
   
   
   				(iii)	Upon receipt of the information in § 408.16 (b)(3)(A)(ii), the DDS
   shall:
   
   
   
   					(A) 	Process the digital payment;
   
   
   
   						(B)	Collect from the passenger and remit to the District the taxicab
   passenger surcharge pursuant to § 408.15;
   
   
   
   						(C)	Transmit to the TCIS the trip data required by § 603.9, other than
   the PSP’s unique trip number; and
   
   
   
   				(iv)	The PSP shall transmit to the TCIS the trip data required by § 603.9
   to allow the Office to reconcile the data provided by the PSP and the DDS.
   
   
   
   				(B)	Hardware and software integration.  Hardware and software integration
   between a PSP and DDS shall allow the following events to occur in the
   following order:
   
   
   
   				(i)	At the conclusion of the trip, the operator shall use the MTS unit to
   notify the PSP of the identity of DDS approved pursuant to Subsection 1604
   that is processing the digital payment;
   
   
   
   				(ii)	The operator shall use an application program interface (API)
   information in the MTS unit or in the DDS’s payment solution approved
   pursuant to Chapter 16, to notify the DDS of:
   
   
   
   			(A)	The taximeter fare pursuant to § 801.7;
   
   
   
   			(B)	The amount of any gratuity;
   
   
   
   			(C)	The number of passengers;
   
   
   
   			(D)	Any additional information commercially and reasonably required to
   allow the DDS to process the digital payment and to comply fully with §
   408.16 (b)(3);
   
   
   
   			(E)	The PSP’s unique trip number assigned to the trip;
   
   
   
   				(iii)	The DDS shall:
   
   
   
   					(A) 	Process the digital payment;
   
   
   
   						(B)	Collect from the passenger and remit to the District the taxicab
   passenger surcharge pursuant to § 408.15;
   
   
   
   						(C)	Transmit to the TCIS the trip data required by § 603.9, including
   the PSP’s unique trip number;
   
   
   
   				(iv)	The PSP shall transmit to the TCIS the trip data required by § 603.9
   to allow the Office to reconcile the data provided by the PSP and the DDS; and
   
   
   
   				(v)	The vehicle owner (taxicab company or independent owner) shall pay the
   PSP an integration service fee of not more than thirty five cents ($.35).
   
   
   
   			(4)	Alternative for integration via approved integration agreement.  In
   lieu of complying with paragraph (b)(3) of this subsection, any DDS and any
   PSP may negotiate an integration agreement that allocates the obligations set
   forth in paragraph (b)(3) in any reasonable, reliable, verifiable, and
   commercially reasonable manner that meets the following requirements:
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 6993 (May 17, 2013); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10975 (July 26, 2013); as amended by
   Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 15560 (November 8, 2013).
