                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROPOSED MODERN TAXIMETER SYSTEMS &#8211; APPLICATIONS BY PSPS (§ 31-403)

403.1. No person shall operate as a PSP, process an in-vehicle payment for a
   taxicab trip, market MTS units, or allow another person to use its MTS units,
   unless such person is a PSP with current approval of its MTS under this
   chapter.  The approval of a PSP’s modern taximeter system under this chapter
   shall constitute the PSP’s operating authority under this title.

   403.2. Each person seeking approval of a proposed MTS shall file with the
   Office an application that includes the following information (including such
   documentation as required by the Office):
   
   
   
   		(a)	The PSP’s name, business address, and business telephone number, and
   the name(s) of its owner and operator;
   
   
   
   		(b)	The name, business address, and business telephone number of each
   affiliated business;
   
   
   
   		(c)	A brief narrative describing the proposed MTS and demonstrating that it
   would meet:
   
   
   
   		(1)	The MTS equipment requirements of § 603.8, including the requirement of
   § 603.8(n) that a passenger console be incorporated not later than December
   1, 2013, and the requirement of                 § 603.8(n)(3) that a safety
   feature be incorporated not later than   June 1, 2014; and
   
   
   
   		(2)	The MTS service and support requirements of § 603.9;
   
   
   
   		(d)	A certification that the PSP owns the rights to, or holds licenses to
   use, all the intellectual property used by the proposed MTS;
   
   
   
   		(e)	The forms of in-vehicle payment that the PSP proposes to offer, in
   addition to cash (such as near-field communications);
   
   
   
   		(f)		Information showing the PSP is in compliance with federal and District
   licensing, permitting, registration, anti-discrimination, and taxation
   requirements applicable to a business operating in the District;
   
   
   
   		(g)		The address and telephone number for the PSP’s bona fide
   administrative office or for its registered agent authorized to accept service
   of process, information showing that the PSP’s bona fide administrative
   office, if any, is in compliance with all laws, rules, and regulations
   concerning the operation of a place of business in the District, and an
   indication of whether a place of business would be shared with an affiliated
   business;
   
   
   
   		(h)		The customer service telephone number that the PSP will provide for
   passengers;
   
   
   
   		(i)		The technical support telephone number that the PSP will provide for
   taxicab owners and operators;
   
   
   
   		(j) 		The URL for the PSP’s website, if any;
   
   
   
   		(k)		The trade name for the MTS and for each service offered by an
   affiliated business;
   
   
   
   		(l)		A certification that the PSP is in compliance with the Clean Hands
   Before Receiving a License or Permit Act of 1996 (“Clean Hands Act”),
   effective May 11, 1996 (D.C. Law 11-118, D.C. Official Code § 47-2862);
   
   
   
   		(m)		An initial inventory of the vehicles and operators associated with the
   PSP, as required by § 408.12;
   
   
   
   		(n)		Information showing the PSP will collect from the passenger and pay to
   the District the passenger surcharge for each taxicab trip, as required by    
     § 408.15;
   
   
   
   		(o)		A sample agreement used by the PSP to associate with taxicab companies,
   independent owners, and operators;
   
   
   
   		(p)		The name of each dispatch service with which the PSP is associated, if
   any;
   
   
   
   		(q)		Information showing the PSP will be in compliance with the integration
   requirements of § 408.16; and
   
   
   
   	(r)	Such other information related to establishing compliance with this
   chapter as the Office may require at the time of application or during the
   review process.

   403.3. Each application shall be made under penalty of perjury, and shall be
   accompanied by an application fee of one-thousand dollars ($1,000) and by a
   surcharge bond.

   403.4. A request for approval may be denied if an application contains or was
   submitted with materially false information provided orally or in writing for
   the purpose of inducing approval.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 6993 (May 17, 2013); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10975 (July 26, 2013).
