                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 15-4099)

4099.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the following meaning:
   
   
   
   &#8220;Adverse System Impact&#8221; means a negative effect, due to technical
   or operational limits on conductors or equipment being exceeded, that
   compromises the safety and reliability of the electric distribution system.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Affected System&#8221; means an electric system not owned or operated
   by the electric distribution company reviewing the interconnection request
   that may suffer an adverse system impact from the proposed interconnection.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Area Network&#8221; means a type of electric distribution system served
   by multiple transformers interconnected in an electrical network circuit,
   which is generally used in large metropolitan areas that are densely
   populated. Area networks are also known as grid networks. Area network has the
   same meaning as the term distribution secondary grid networks in 4.1.4.1 of
   IEEE Standard 1547.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Certificate of Completion&#8221; means a certificate in a completed
   form approved by the Commission containing information about the
   interconnection equipment to be used, its installation and local inspections.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Certified Equipment&#8221; means a designation that the interconnection
   equipment meets the requirements set forth in Section 4002 of this document
   
   
   
   &#8220;Commission&#8221; means the Public Service Commission of the District
   of Columbia.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Commissioning Test&#8221; means the tests applied to a small generator
   facility by the interconnection customer after construction is completed to
   verify that the facility does not create adverse system impacts. The scope of
   the commissioning tests performed shall include the commissioning test
   specified IEEE Standard 1547 section 5.4 &#8220;Commissioning tests&#8221;.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Distribution System Upgrade&#8221; means a required addition or
   modification to the EDC&#8217;s electric distribution system at or beyond the
   point of common coupling to accommodate the interconnection of a small
   generator facility. Distribution upgrades do not include interconnection
   facilities.
   
   
   
   &#8220;District of Columbia Small Generator Interconnection Rule
   (DCSGIR)&#8221; means the most current version of the procedures for
   interconnecting Small Generator Facilities adopted by the District of Columbia
   Public Service Commission.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Draw-out Type Circuit Breaker&#8221; means a switching device capable
   of making, carrying and breaking currents under normal and abnormal circuit
   conditions such as those of a short circuit. A draw-out circuit breaker can be
   physically removed from its enclosure, creating a visible break in the
   circuit. For the purposes of these regulations, the draw-out circuit breaker
   shall be capable of being locked in the open, draw-out position.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Electric Distribution Company&#8221; or &#8220;EDC&#8221; means an
   electric utility entity that distributes electricity to customers and is
   subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Electric Distribution System&#8221; means the facilities and equipment
   used to transmit electricity to ultimate usage points such as homes and
   industries from interchanges with higher voltage transmission networks that
   transport bulk power over longer distances. The voltage levels at which
   electric distribution systems operate differ among areas but generally carry
   less than 69 kilovolts of electricity. Electric distribution system has the
   same meaning as the term Area EPS, as defined in 3.1.6.1 of IEEE Standard
   1547.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Estimated Commissioning Date&#8221; means the date an interconnection
   customer is expected to start operation.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Facilities Study&#8221; means an engineering study conducted by the EDC
   to determine the required modifications to the EDC&#8217;s Electric
   Distribution System, including the cost and the time required to build and
   install such modifications as necessary to accommodate an Interconnection
   Request.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Fault Current&#8221; means the electrical current that flows through a
   circuit during an electrical fault condition. A fault condition occurs when
   one or more electrical conductors contact ground or each other. Types of
   faults include phase to ground, double- phase to ground, three-phase to
   ground, phase-to-phase, and three-phase. Fault current is several times larger
   in magnitude than the current that normally flows through a circuit.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Good Utility Practice&#8221; means any of the practices, methods and
   acts engaged in or approved by a significant portion of the electric utility
   industry during the relevant time period, or any of the practices, methods and
   acts which, in the exercise of reasonable judgment in light of the facts known
   at the time the decision was made, could have been expected to accomplish the
   desired result of the lowest reasonable cost consistent with good business
   practices, reliability, safety and expedition. Good Utility Practice is not
   intended to be limited to the optimum practice, method or act to the exclusion
   of all others, but rather to be acceptable practices, methods, or acts
   generally accepted in the region.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Governmental Authority&#8221; means any federal, State, local or other
   governmental regulatory or administrative agency, court, commission,
   department, board, or other governmental subdivision, legislature, rulemaking
   board, tribunal, or other governmental authority having jurisdiction over the
   Parties, respective facilities, or services provided, and exercising or
   entitled to exercise any administrative, executive, police, or taxing
   authority or power; provided, however, that such term does not include the
   Interconnection Customer, EDC or any affiliate thereof.
   
   
   
   &#8220;IEEE Standard 1547&#8243; means the Institute of Electrical and
   Electronics Engineers, Inc. (IEEE) Standard 1547 (2003) &#8220;Standard for
   Interconnecting Distributed Resources with Electric Power Systems&#8221;, as
   amended and supplemented at the time the interconnection request is submitted.
   
   
   
   &#8220;IEEE Standard 1547.1&#8243; means the IEEE Standard 1547.1 (2005)
   &#8220;Conformance Test Procedures for Equipment Interconnecting Distributed
   Resources with Electric Power Systems&#8221;, as amended and supplemented at
   the time the interconnection request is submitted.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Interconnection Customer&#8221; means an entity that has submitted an
   interconnection request to interconnect a small generator facility to an
   EDC&#8217;s electric distribution system.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Interconnection Equipment&#8221; means a group of equipment,
   components, or an integrated system connecting an electric generator with a
   local electric power system or an electric distribution system that includes
   all interface equipment including switchgear, protective devices, inverters or
   other interface devices. Interconnection equipment may be installed as part of
   an integrated equipment package that includes a generator or other electric
   source.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Interconnection Facilities&#8221; means facilities and equipment
   required by the EDC to accommodate the interconnection of a small generator
   facility. Collectively, interconnection facilities include all facilities and
   equipment between the small generator facility and the point of common
   coupling, including modification, additions, or upgrades that are necessary to
   physically and electrically interconnect the small generator facility to the
   electric distribution system. Interconnection facilities are sole use
   facilities and do not include distribution upgrades.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Interconnection Request&#8221; means an interconnection
   customer&#8217;s request, in a form approved by the Commission, requesting the
   interconnection of a new small generator facility, or to increase the capacity
   or modify operating characteristics of an existing approved small generator
   facility that is interconnected with the EDC&#8217;s electric distribution
   system.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Line Section&#8221; means that portion of an EDC&#8217;s distribution
   system connected to an interconnection customer, bounded by automatic
   sectionalizing devices or the end of the distribution line.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Local Electric Power System&#8221; or &#8220;Local EPS&#8221; means
   facilities that deliver electric power to a load that are contained entirely
   within a single premises or group of premises. Local electric power system has
   the same meaning as the term local electric power system defined in 3.1.6.2 of
   IEEE Standard 1547.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Minor Equipment Modification&#8221; means changes to the proposed small
   generator facility that do not have a material impact on safety or reliability
   of the electric distribution system.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Nameplate Capacity&#8221; means the maximum rated output of a
   generator, prime mover, or other electric power production equipment under
   specific conditions designated by the manufacturer and is usually indicated on
   a nameplate physically attached to the power production equipment.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory&#8221; or &#8220;NRTL&#8221;
   means a qualified private organization that meets the requirements of the
   Occupational Safety and Health Administration&#8217;s (OSHA) regulations.
   NRTLs perform independent safety testing and product certification. Each NRTL
   shall meet the requirements as set forth by OSHA in the NRTL program.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Parallel Operation&#8221; or &#8220;Parallel&#8221; means the sustained
   state of operation over 100 milliseconds, which occurs when a small generator
   facility is connected electrically to the electric distribution system and
   thus has the ability for electricity to flow from the small generator facility
   to the electric distribution system.
   
   
   
   &#8220;PJM Interconnection&#8221; means the regional transmission organization
   that is regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and functionally
   controls the transmission system for the region that includes the District of
   Columbia.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Point of Common Coupling&#8221; means the point where the small
   generator facility is electrically connected to the electric distribution
   system. Point of common coupling is has the same meaning as defined in 3.1.13
   of IEEE Standard 1547.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Primary Line&#8221; means a distribution line rated at greater than 600
   volts.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Production Test&#8221; is defined in IEEE Standard 1547.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Queue Position&#8221; means the order of a valid interconnection
   request, relative to all other pending valid interconnection requests, that is
   established based upon the date and time of receipt of the valid
   interconnection request by the EDC.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Radial Distribution Circuit&#8221; means a circuit configuration where
   independent feeders branch out radially from a common source of supply. From
   the standpoint of a utility system, the area described is between the
   generating source or intervening substations and the customer&#8217;s entrance
   equipment. A radial distribution system is the most common type of connection
   between a utility and load in which power flows in one direction from the
   utility to the load.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Scoping Meeting&#8221; means a meeting between representatives of the
   interconnection customer and EDC conducted for the purpose of discussing
   alternative interconnection options, exchanging information including any
   electric distribution system data and earlier study evaluations that would be
   reasonably expected to impact interconnection options, analyzing information,
   and determining the potential feasible points of interconnection.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Secondary Line&#8221; means a service line subsequent to the primary
   line that is rated for 600 volts or less, also referred to as the
   customer&#8217;s service line.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Shared Transformer&#8221; means a transformer that supplies secondary
   source voltage to more than one customer.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Small Generator Facility&#8221; means the equipment used by an
   interconnection customer to generate or store electricity that operates in
   parallel with the electric distribution system and, for the purposes of this
   standard, is rated 10 MW or less. A small generator facility typically
   includes an electric generator, prime mover, and the interconnection equipment
   required to safely interconnect with the electric distribution system or local
   electric power system.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Spot Network&#8221; means a type of electric distribution system that
   uses two or more inter- tied transformers to supply an electrical network
   circuit. A spot network is generally used to supply power to a single customer
   or a small group of customers. Spot network has the same meaning as the term
   distribution secondary spot networks defined in 4.1.4.2 of IEEE Standard 1547.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Standard Agreement for Interconnection of Small Generator Facilities,
   Interconnection Agreement, or Agreement&#8221; means a set of standard forms
   of interconnection agreements approved by the Commission which are applicable
   to interconnection requests pertaining to small generating facilities. The
   agreement between the Interconnection Customer and the EDC, which governs the
   connection of the Small Generator Facility to the EDC&#8217;s Electric
   Distribution System, as well as the ongoing operation of the Small Generator
   Facility after it is connected to the EDC&#8217;s Electric Distribution
   System.
   
   
   
   &#8220;UL Standard 1741&#8243; means Underwriters Laboratories&#8217; standard
   titled &#8220;Inverters Converters, and Controllers for Use in Independent
   Power Systems&#8221;, as amended and supplemented at the time the
   interconnection request is submitted.
   
   
   
   &#8220;Witness Test&#8221; means verification (either by an on-site
   observation or review of documents) by the EDC that the installation
   evaluation required by IEEE Standard 1547 Section 5.3 and the commissioning
   test required by IEEE Standard 1547 Section 5.4 have been adequately
   performed. For interconnection equipment that has not been certified, the
   witness test shall also include the verification by the EDC of the on-site
   design tests as required by IEEE Standard 1547 Section 5.1 and verification by
   the EDC of production tests required by IEEE Standard 1547 Section 5.2. All
   tests verified by the EDC are to be performed in accordance with the
   applicable test procedures specified by IEEE Standard 1547.1.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 1415, 1418
   (February 13, 2009).
   
   
   
   Interconnection System Impact Study Agreement
   
   This agreement is made and entered into this       day of       by and between
                 , a     organized and existing under the laws of the State of   
        , (&#8220;Interconnection Customer,&#8221;) and       , a          
   Existing under the laws of the State of                          ,
   (&#8220;Electric Distribution Company&#8221; or &#8220;EDC&#8221;). The
   Interconnection Customer and the EDC each may be referred to as a
   &#8220;Party,&#8221; or collectively as the &#8220;Parties.&#8221;
   
   
   
   Recitals:
   
   Whereas, The Interconnection Customer is proposing to develop a Small
   Generating Facility or adding generating capacity to an existing Small
   Generating Facility consistent with the Application completed by the
   Interconnection Customer On           ; and
   
   
   
   Whereas, The Interconnection Customer desires to interconnect the Small
   Generating Facility with the EDC&#8217;s electric distribution system;
   
   
   
   Whereas, The EDC has completed an Interconnection Feasibility Study and
   provided the results of said study to the Interconnection Customer (This
   recital may be omitted if the Parties have agreed to forego the
   Interconnection Feasibility Study.);
   
   
   
   Whereas, The Interconnection Customer has requested the EDC to perform an
   Interconnection System Impact Study to assess the impact of interconnecting
   the Small Generating Facility to the EDC&#8217;s electric distribution system;
   
   
   
   Now, therefore, in consideration of and subject to the mutual covenants
   contained herein the Parties agree as follows:
   
   
   
   1.	The Interconnection Customer elects and the EDC shall cause to be performed
   an Interconnection System Impact Study consistent with the District of
   Columbia Small Generator Interconnection Rules.
   
   
   
   2.	The scope of the Interconnection System Impact Study shall be subject to
   the assumptions set forth below in Section 2 of this agreement.
   
   
   
   3.	The Interconnection System Impact Study shall be based on the results of
   the Interconnection Feasibility Study and the technical information provided
   by the Interconnection Customer in the Application. The EDC reserves the right
   to request additional technical information from the Interconnection Customer
   as may reasonably become necessary consistent with good utility practice
   during the course of the Interconnection System Impact Study. If the
   Interconnection Customer modifies its designated Point of Interconnection,
   Application, or the technical information provided therein is modified, the
   time to complete the Interconnection System Impact Study may be extended by
   mutual agreement of the Parties.
   
   
   
   4.	The Interconnection System Impact Study report shall provide the following
   information:

   4.1. Identification of any circuit breaker short circuit capability limits
   exceeded as a result of the interconnection;
   
   
   
   Interconnection Facilities
   
   
   
   4.1.1	The Interconnection Customer shall pay for the cost of the
   Interconnection Facilities itemized in Attachment 2 of this Agreement if
   required under the additional review procedures of a Level 2 review or under a
   Level 4 review. If a Facilities Study was performed, the EDC shall identify
   the Interconnection Facilities necessary to safely interconnect the Small
   Generator Facility with the EDC&#8217;s Electric Distribution System, the cost
   of those facilities, and the time required to build and install those
   facilities.
   
   
   
   4.1.2	The Interconnection Customer shall be responsible for its expenses,
   including overheads, associated with (1) owning, operating, maintaining,
   repairing, and replacing its Interconnection Equipment, and (2) its reasonable
   share of operating, maintaining, repairing, and replacing any Interconnection
   Facilities owned by the EDC as set forth in Attachment 2.

   4.2. Identification of any thermal overload or voltage limit violations
   resulting from the interconnection;
   
   
   
   Distribution Upgrades
   
   
   
   The EDC shall design, procure, construct, install, and own any Distribution
   Upgrades. The actual cost of the Distribution Upgrades, including overheads,
   shall be directly assigned to the Interconnection Customer. The
   Interconnection Customer may be entitled to financial contribution from any
   other EDC customers who may in the future utilize the upgrades paid for by the
   Interconnection Customer. Such contributions shall be governed by the rules,
   regulations and decisions of the District of Columbia Public Service
   Commission.
   
   
   
   Article 5	Billing, Payment, Milestones, and Financial Security

   4.3. Identification of any instability or inadequately damped response to
   system disturbances resulting from the interconnection; and

   4.4. Description and non-binding, good faith estimated cost of facilities
   required to interconnect the generating facility to the EDC&#8217;s electric
   distribution system, and to address the identified short circuit, instability,
   and power flow issues,
   
   
   
   5.	The Interconnection System Impact Study, if required, shall be completed
   and the results transmitted to the Interconnection Customer within thirty (30)
   calendar days after this agreement is signed by the Parties or in accordance
   with the EDC&#8217;s queuing procedures.
   
   
   
   6.	Study fees and deposits shall be based on actual costs in accordance with
   the provisions of the District of Columbia Small Generator Interconnection
   Rules and the Level 2-4 Standard Agreement.
   
   
   
   In witness thereof, the Parties have caused this agreement to be duly executed
   by their authorized officers or agents on the day and year first above
   written.
   
   
   
   [Insert name of the EDC]
   
   
   
   Signed
   
   Name (Printed):                               Title
   
   
   
   [Insert name of Interconnection Customer]
   
   
   
   Signed
   
   Name (Printed):                               Title
   
   
   
   Section 2: Interconnection System Impact Study Agreement
   
   Assumptions Used in Conducting the Interconnection System Impact Study
   
   
   
   The Interconnection System Impact Study shall be based on the results of the
   Interconnection Feasibility Study, subject to any modifications in accordance
   with District of Columbia Small Generation Facility Interconnection Rules and
   the following assumptions:
   
   
   
   1. Designation of Point of Interconnection and configuration to be studied.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   2. Designation of alternative Points of Interconnection and configuration.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Note: 1 and 2 are to be completed by the Interconnection Customer. Additional
   assumptions provided by the Interconnection Customer and/or the EDC shall be
   listed below.
   
   
   
   Level 1
   
   Interconnection Request Application Form and Agreement
   
   Interconnection Customer Contact Information
   
   Name
   
   Mailing Address:
   
   City:                        State:                     Zip Code
   
   Telephone (Daytime):                      (Mobile):
   
   Facsimile Number:                         Mail Address:
   
   
   
   Alternative Contact Information (if different from Customer Contact
   Information)
   
   Name:
   
   Mailing Address:
   
   City:                        State:                     Zip Code
   
   Telephone (Daytime):                      (Mobile):
   
   Facsimile Number:                         Mail Address:
   
   
   
   Equipment Contractor
   
   Name:
   
   Mailing Address:
   
   City:                        State:                     Zip Code
   
   Telephone (Daytime):                      (Mobile):
   
   Facsimile Number:                         Mail Address:
   
   
   
   Electrical Contractor (if Different from Equipment Contractor):
   
   Name:
   
   Mailing Address:
   
   City:                        State:                     Zip Code
   
   Telephone (Daytime):                      (Mobile):
   
   Facsimile Number:                         Mail Address:
   
   License number:
   
   Active License? Yes    No
   
   
   
   Facility Information (building where the small generator facility is located)
   
   Electric Distribution Company (EDC) Serving Facility Site:
   
   Electric Supplier (if different from EDC):
   
   Account Number of Facility site {existing EDC customers):
   
   
   
   Facility Address (building where the small generator facility is located)
   
   Address:
   
   City:                   State:                   Zip Code:
   
   
   
   Small Generator Facility Information
   
   Inverter Manufacturer:                      Model
   
   Nameplate Rating:      (kW)      (kVA)      (AC Volts)
   
   System Design Capacity:     (kW)     {kVA)
   
   Prime Mover: Photovoltaic □  Reciprocating Engine □  Fuel Cell □ 
   Turbine □  Other
   
   Energy Source: Solar □  Wind □  Hydro □  Diesel □  Natural Gas Fuel
   Oil □  Other
   
   
   
   Is the inverter lab certified? Yes□
   
   
   
   (If yes, attach manufacturer&#8217;s cut sheet showing listing and label
   information from the appropriate listing authority, e.g. UL 1741 listing. If
   no, facility is not eligible for Level 1 Application.)
   
   
   
   □ Net Meter (Small generator facility will export power pursuant to District
   of Columbia Customer Net Energy Metering Contract)
   
   
   
   Estimated Commissioning Date:
   
   
   
   Insurance Disclosure
   
   
   
   The attached terms and conditions contain provisions related to liability, and
   ndemnification and should be carefully considered by the interconnection
   customer. The interconnection customer is not required to obtain general
   liability insurance coverage as a precondition for interconnection approval;
   however, the interconnection customer is advised to consider obtaining
   appropriate insurance coverage to cover the interconnection customer&#8217;s
   potential liability under this agreement.
   
   
   
   Customer Signature
   
   
   
   I hereby certify that: 1) I have read and understand the terms and conditions
   which are attached hereto by reference and are a part of this agreement; 2) I
   hereby agree to comply with the attached terms and conditions; and 3) to the
   best of my knowledge, all of the information provided in this application
   request form is complete and true.
   
   
   
   Interconnection Customer Signature:
   
   Title:                         Date:
   
   
   
   An application fee of $100 payable to the EDC is required before the
   application can be processed. Please verify that the fee is included with the
   application: Application fee included □
   
   
   
   Conditional Agreement to Interconnect Small Generator Facility
   
   Receipt of the application fee is acknowledged and, by its signature below,
   the EDC has determined the interconnection request is complete.
   Interconnection of the small generator facility is conditionally approved
   contingent upon the attached terms and conditions of this agreement the return
   of the attached Certificate of Completion duly executed, verification of
   electrical inspection and successful witness test or EDC waiver thereof.
   
   
   
   EDC Signature:                              Date:
   
   Printed Name:                               Title:
   
   
   
   Terms and Conditions for Interconnection
   
   
   
   1)	Construction of the Small Generator Facility. The interconnection customer
   may proceed to construct (including operational testing not to exceed 2 hours)
   the small generator facility once the conditional agreement to interconnect a
   small generator facility has been signed by the EDC.
   
   
   
   2)	Final Interconnection and Operation. The interconnection customer may
   operate the small generator facility and interconnect with the EDC&#8217;s
   electric distribution system once all of the following have occurred:
   
   
   
   a)	Electrical Inspection: Upon completing construction, the interconnection
   customer will cause the small generator facility to be inspected by the local
   electrical wiring inspector with jurisdiction who shall establish that the
   small generator facility meets the requirements of the National Electrical
   Code.
   
   b)	Certificate of Completion: The interconnection customer shall provide the
   EDC with a completed copy of the Certificate of Completion, including evidence
   of the electrical inspection performed by the local authority having
   jurisdiction. The evidence of completion of the electrical inspection may be
   provided on inspection forms used by local inspecting authorities. The
   interconnection request shall not be finally approved until the EDC&#8217;s
   representative signs the Certificate of Completion.
   
   
   
   c)	The EDC has either waived the right to a Witness Test in the
   interconnection request, or completed its Witness Test as per the following:
   
   
   
   i)	Within ten (10) business days of the estimated commissioning date, the EDC
   may, upon reasonable notice and at a mutually convenient time, conduct a
   Witness Test of the small generator facility to ensure that all equipment has
   been appropriately installed and that all electrical connections have been
   made in accordance with applicable codes
   
   
   
   ii)	If the EDC does not perform the Witness Test within the 10 day period or
   such other time as is mutually agreed to by the parties, the Witness Test is
   deemed waived.
   
   
   
   3)	IEEE 1547. The small generator facility is installed, operated, and tested
   in accordance with the requirements of IEEE standard 1547, &#8220;Standard for
   Interconnecting Distributed Resources with Electric Power Systems&#8221;, as
   amended and supplemented, at the time the interconnection request is
   submitted.
   
   
   
   4)	Access. The EDC shall have direct, unabated access to the metering
   equipment of the small generator facility at all times. The EDC shall provide
   reasonable notice to the customer when possible prior to using its right of
   access.
   
   
   
   5)	Metering. Any required metering shall be installed pursuant to appropriate
   tariffs and tested by the EDC pursuant to the EDCs meter testing requirements
   
   
   
   6)	Disconnection. The EDC may temporarily disconnect the small generator
   facility upon the following conditions:
   
   
   
   a)	For scheduled outages upon reasonable notice;
   
   
   
   b)	For unscheduled outages or emergency conditions;
   
   
   
   c)	If the small generator facility does not operate in the manner consistent
   with this agreement;
   
   
   
   d)	Improper installation or failure to pass the Witness Test;
   
   
   
   e)	If the small generator facility is creating a safety, reliability or a
   power quality problem; or
   
   
   
   f)	The interconnection equipment used by the small generator facility is
   de-listed by the Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory that provided the
   listing at the time the interconnection was approved.
   
   
   
   7)	Indemnification. The parties shall at all times indemnify, defend, and save
   the other party harmless from, any and all damages, losses, claims, including
   claims and actions relating to injury to or death of any person or damage to
   property, demand, suits, recoveries, costs and expenses, court costs, attorney
   fees, and all other obligations by or to third parties, arising out of or
   resulting from the other party&#8217;s action or inactions of its obligations
   under this agreement on behalf of the indemnifying party, except in cases of
   gross negligence or intentional wrongdoing by the indemnified party.
   
   
   
   8)	Limitation of Liability. Each party&#8217;s liability to the other party
   for any loss, cost, claim, injury, liability, or expense, including reasonable
   attorney&#8217;s fees, relating to or arising from any act or omission in its
   performance of this agreement, shall be limited to the amount of direct damage
   actually incurred. In no event shall either party be liable to the other party
   for any indirect, incidental, special, consequential, or punitive damages of
   any kind whatsoever.
   
   
   
   9)	Termination. This agreement may be terminated under the following
   conditions:
   
   
   
   a)	By interconnection customer &#8211; The interconnection customer may
   terminate this application agreement by providing written notice to the EDC.
   
   
   
   b)	By the EDC &#8211; The EDC may terminate this agreement if the
   interconnection customer fails to remedy a violation of terms of this
   agreement within 30 calendar days after notice, or such other date as may be
   mutually agreed to prior to the expiration of the 30 calendar day remedy
   period. The termination date can be no less than 30 calendar days after the
   interconnection customer receives notice of its violation from the EDC.
   
   
   
   10)	Modification of Small Generator Facility. The interconnection customer
   shall provide written notification to the EDC before making any modifications
   to the small generator facility. The EDC will determine if the modifications
   are minor or non- minor in nature. Written authorization from the EDC is
   required for non-minor changes if the EDC determines that the interconnection
   customer&#8217;s modifications may have a significant impact on the safety or
   reliability of the electric distribution system. If the interconnection
   customer makes such modifications without the EDC&#8217;s prior written
   authorization the EDC shall have the right to temporarily disconnect the small
   generator facility until such time as the EDC reasonably concludes the
   modification poses no threat to the safety or reliability of its electric
   distribution system.
   
   
   
   11)	Permanent Disconnection. In the event the agreement is terminated, the EDC
   shall have the right to disconnect its facilities or direct the customer to
   disconnect its small generator facility.
   
   
   
   12)	Disputes. Each party agrees to attempt to resolve all disputes regarding
   the provisions of these interconnection procedures pursuant to the dispute
   resolution provisions of the District of Columbia Small Generator
   Interconnection Rules
   
   
   
   13)	Governing Law, Regulatory Authority, and Rules. The validity,
   interpretation and enforcement of this agreement and each of its provisions
   shall be governed by the laws of the District of Columbia. Nothing in this
   agreement is intended to affect any other agreement between the EDC and the
   interconnection customer. However, in the event that the provisions of this
   agreement are in conflict with the provisions of the EDC&#8217;s tariff, the
   EDC tariff shall control.
   
   
   
   14)	Survival Rights. This agreement shall continue in effect after termination
   to the extent necessary to allow or require either party to fulfill rights or
   obligations that arose under the agreement.
   
   
   
   15)	Assignment/Transfer of Ownership of the Small Generator Facility: This
   agreement shall terminate upon the transfer of ownership of the small
   generator facility to a new owner unless the transferring owner assigns the
   agreement to the new owner and so notifies the EDC in writing prior to the
   transfer of electric service.
   
   
   
   16)	Definitions. Any capitalized term used herein and not defined shall have
   the same meaning as the defined terms used in the District of Columbia Small
   Generator Interconnection Rule
   
   
   
   17)	Notice. Unless otherwise provided in this agreement, any written notice,
   demand, or request required or authorized in connection with this agreement
   (&#8220;Notice&#8221;) shall be deemed properly given if delivered in person,
   delivered by recognized national courier service, or sent by first class mail,
   postage prepaid, to the person specified below:
   
   
   
   (If to Interconnection Customer)
   
   
   
   Use the contact information provided in the agreement for the interconnection
   customer. The interconnection customer is responsible for notifying the EDC of
   any change in the contact party information, including change of ownership.
   
   
   
   (If to EDC)
   
   Use the contact information provided on the EDC&#8217;s web page for small
   generator interconnection.
   
   
   
   Level 2, Level 3 and Level 4
   
   Interconnection Request Application Form
   
   
   
   Interconnection Customer Contact Information
   
   Name:
   
   Mailing Address:
   
   City:                        State:                     Zip Code
   
   Telephone (Daytime):                      (Mobile):
   
   Facsimile Number:                         Mail Address:
   
   
   
   Alternative Contact Information (if different from Customer Contact
   Information)
   
   Name:
   
   Mailing Address:
   
   City:                        State:                     Zip Code
   
   Telephone (Daytime):                      (Mobile):
   
   Facsimile Number:                         Mail Address:
   
   
   
   Facility Address (Building where the small generator facility is located)
   
   Address:
   
   City:                   State:                   Zip Code:
   
   
   
   Equipment Contractor
   
   Name:
   
   Mailing Address:
   
   City:                        State:                     Zip Code
   
   Telephone (Daytime):                      (Mobile):
   
   Facsimile Number:                         Mail Address:
   
   
   
   Electrical Contractor (if Different from Equipment Contractor):
   
   Name:
   
   Mailing Address:
   
   City:                        State:                     Zip Code
   
   Telephone (Daytime):                      (Mobile):
   
   Facsimile Number:                         Mail Address:
   
   License number:
   
   Active License? Yes     No
   
   
   
   Electric Service Information for Customer Facility Where Generator Will Be
   Interconnected
   
   Electric Distribution Company (EDC) serving Facility site:
   
   Electric Supplier (if different from EDC):
   
   Account Number of Facility site (existing EDC customers):
   
   
   
   Capacity:          (Amps) Voltage:             (Volts)
   
   Type of Service: □ Single Phase  □ Three Phase
   
   If 3 Phase Transformer, Indicate Type
   
   Primary Winding □ Wye  □ Delta
   
   Secondary Winding □ Wye  □ Delta
   
   Transformer Size:                        Impedance:
   
   
   
   Intent of Generation (choose one)
   
   □ Offset Load (Unit will operate in parallel, but will not export power to
   EDC)
   
   □ Net Meter (Small generator facility will export power pursuant to District
   of Columbia Customer Net Energy Metering Contract)
   
   □ Export Power (Unit will operate in parallel and will export power, but
   does not fit the criteria established in the District of Columbia Customer Net
   Energy Metering Contract for net metering)
   
   
   
   Note: if Unit will operate in parallel and participate in the PJM market(s),
   unit will need to obtain an interconnection agreement from PJM.
   
   
   
   □ Back-up Generation (Units that temporarily parallel for more than 100
   milliseconds)
   
   
   
   Backup units that do not operate in parallel for more than 100 milliseconds do
   not need an interconnection agreement.
   
   
   
   Requested Procedure Under Which to Evaluate Interconnection Request
   
   Please indicate below which review procedure applies to the interconnection
   request.
   
   
   
   	□ Level 2 &#8211; Certified interconnection equipment with an aggregate
   electric nameplate capacity less than or equal to 2 MW. Indicate type of
   certification below. (Application fee amount is $500).
   
   
   
   	□ Level 3 &#8211; Small generator facility does not export power. Nameplate
   capacity rating is equal to less than 50 kW if connecting to area network or
   equal to or less than 10 MW if connecting to a radial distribution feeder.
   (Application fee amount is $500).
   
   
   
   	□ Level 4 &#8211; Nameplate capacity rating is less than 10 MW and the
   small generator facility does not qualify for a Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3
   review or, the small generator facility has been reviewed but not approved
   under a Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 review. (Application fee amount is $1,000,
   to be applied toward any subsequent studies related to this application).
   
   
   
   Descriptions for interconnection review categories do not list all criteria
   that must be satisfied. For a complete list of criteria, please refer to the
   District of Columbia Small Generator Interconnection Rules.
   
   
   
   Small Generator Facility Information
   
   
   
   Energy Production Equipment/Inverter Information
   
   Energy Source: □ Hydro  □ Wind  □ Solar  □ Diesel  □ Biomass  □
   Natural Gas
   
   □ Coal  □ Oil  □ Other
   
   
   
   Energy Converter Type: □ Water Turbine  □ Wind Turbine  □ Photovoltaic
   Cell  □ Steam Turbine
   
    □ Combustion Turbine  □ Reciprocating Engine  □ Other
   
   
   
   Generator Type: □ Synchronous  □Induction  □ Inverter  □ Other
   
   
   
   Rating:           Kw         Rating:               kVA        Number of Units:
   
   Rated Voltage:                      Volts
   
   Rated Current:                  Amps
   
   System Type Tested (Total System): □ Yes  □ No; attach product literature
   
   
   
   
   
   Interconnection components/system(s) to be used in the Small Generation
   Facility that are lab certified (required for Level 2 Interconnection requests
   only).
   
   
   
   Component/System                                             NRTL Providing
   Label &#038; Listing
   
   1.
   
   2.
   
   3.
   
   4.
   
   Please provide copies of manufacturer brochures or technical specifications
   
   
   
   For Synchronous Machines:
   
   Note: Contact EDC to determine if all the information requested in this
   section is required for the proposed small generator facility.
   
   
   
   Manufacturer:
   
   Model No.                     Version No.
   
   Submit copies of the Saturation Curve and the Vee Curve
   
   □ Salient  □ Non-Salient
   
   Torque:         lb-ft   Rated RPM:         Field Amperes:        at rated
   generator voltage
   
   and current and            % PF over-excited
   
   Type of Exciter:
   
   Output Power of Exciter:
   
   
   
   Type of Voltage Regulator:                          Locked Rotor Current:     
       Amps Synchronous Speed:             RPM
   
   Winding Connection:                   Min. Operating Freq./Time:
   
   Generator Connection: □ Delta  □ Wye  □ Wye Grounded
   
   Direct-axis Synchronous Reactance (Xd)          ohms
   
   Direct-axis Transient Reactance (X&#8217;d)          ohms
   
   Direct-axis Sub-transient Reactance (X&#8221;d)          ohms
   
   Negative Sequence Reactance:          ohms
   
   Zere Sequence Reactance:          ohms
   
   Neutral Impedance or Grounding Resister (if any):          ohms
   
   
   
   For Induction Machines:
   
   Note: Contact EDC to determine if all the information requested in this
   section is required for the proposed small generator facility.
   
   
   
   Manufacturer:
   
   Model No.                           Version No.
   
   Locked Rotor Current:           Amps
   
   Rotor Resistance (Rr)           ohms Exciting Current    Amps
   
   Rotor Reactance (Xr)           ohms Reactive Power Required:
   
   Magnetizing Reactance (Xm)         ohms          VARs (No Load)
   
   Stator Resistance (Rs)         ohms         VARs (Full Load)
   
   Stator Reactance (Xs)         ohms
   
   Short Circuit Reactance (X&#8221;d)         ohms
   
   Phases: □ Single  □ Three-Phase
   
   Frame Size:         Design Letter:         Temp. Rise:        °C.
   
   
   
   Reverse Power Relay Information (Level 3 Review Only)
   
   Manufacturer:
   
   Relay Type:                        Model Number:
   
   Reverse Power Setting:
   
   Reverse Power Time Delay (if any):
   
   
   
   Additional Information For Inverter Based Facilities
   
   Inverter Information:
   
   Manufacturer:                    Model:
   
   
   
   Type: □ Forced Commutated  □ Line Commutated
   
   Rated Output              Watts              Volts
   
   Efficiency     %  Power Factor     %
   
   Inverter UL1547 Listed: : □ Yes  □ No
   
   
   
   DC Source / Prime Mover:
   
   Rating:            Kw    Rating:            kVA
   
   Rated Voltage:            Volts
   
   Open Circuit Voltage (If applicable):            Volts
   
   Rated Current:            Amps
   
   Short Circuit Current (If applicable):            Amps
   
   
   
   Other Facility Information:
   
   One Line Diagram attached: □ Yes
   
   Plot Plan attached: □ Yes
   
   
   
   Estimated Commissioning Date:
   
   
   
   Customer Signature
   
   I hereby certify that all of the information provided in this application
   request form is true.
   
   
   
   Interconnection Customer Signature:
   
   Title:                   Date:
   
   
   
   An application fee is required before the application can be processed. Please
   verify that the
   
   appropriate fee is included with the application:
   
   Application fee included □
   
   Amount
   
   
   
   EDC Acknowledgement
   
   Receipt of the application fee is acknowledged and the interconnection request
   is complete.
   
   
   
   EDC Signature:                              Date:
   
   Printed Name:                             Title:
   
   
   
   Small Generator Facility InterconnectionCertificate of Completion Form1
   
   
   
   Interconnection Customer Contact Information
   
   Name:
   
   Mailing Address:
   
   City:               State:                      Zip Code:
   
   Telephone (Daytime):                           (Evening):
   
   E-Mail Address/ Fax number:
   
   
   
   Equipment Contractor Name:
   
   Name:
   
   Mailing Address:
   
   City:               State:                      Zip Code:
   
   Telephone (Daytime):                             (Evening):
   
   E-Mail Address/ Fax number:
   
   
   
   Final Electric Inspection and Applicant Signature
   
   The Small Generator Facility is complete and has been approved by the local
   electric inspector having jurisdiction. A signed copy of the electric
   inspector&#8217;s form indicating final approval is attached. The
   Interconnection Customer acknowledges that the Small Generator Facility is not
   ready for operation until receipt of the final acceptance of an approval by
   the Electric Distribution Company (&#8220;EDC&#8221;) as provided below.
   
   
   
   Signed                                               Date
   
                (Signature of Interconnection Customer)
   
   
   
   Printed Name:
   
   
   
   Check if copy of signed electric inspection form is attached □
   
   
   
   Acceptance and Final Approval of Interconnection Installation(for EDC use
   only)
   
   
   
   The interconnection installation is approved and the Small Generator Facility
   is approved for operation under the terms and conditions of the District of
   Columbia Small Generator Interconnection Rules and a duly signed and executed
   Interconnection Agreement.
   
   
   
   EDC waives Witness Test? (Initial)  Yes (     )  No(     )
   
   If not waived, date of successful Witness Test:            Passed: (Initial) (
              )
   
   EDC Signature:                                   Date:
   
   Printed Name:                                    Title:
   
   
   
   1The interconnection shall not be deemed complete and ready for operation
   until the interconnection customer has completed this form, secured the
   necessary attachments and signatures, returned a copy to the EDC at the
   EDC&#8217;s designated address, and received a final signed approval form from
   the EDC.
   
   
   
   Interconnection Facilities Study Agreement
   
   
   
   This agreement is made and entered into this     day of        by and between 
                  ,a        organized and existing under the laws of the State of
          &#8220;Interconnection Customer,&#8221;) and        a       existing
   under the laws of the State of       , (&#8220;Electric Distribution
   Company&#8221; or &#8220;EDC&#8221;).The Interconnection Customer and the EDC
   each may be referred to as a &#8220;Party,&#8221; or collectively as the
   &#8220;Parties.&#8221;
   
   Recitals:
   
   Whereas, The Interconnection Customer is proposing to develop a Small
   Generating Facility or adding generating capacity to an existing Small
   Generating Facility consistent with the Application completed by the
   Interconnection Customer on                                                  
   ; and
   
   
   
   Whereas, The Interconnection Customer desires to interconnect the Small
   Generating Facility with the EDC&#8217;s distribution system;
   
   
   
   Whereas, The EDC has completed an Interconnection System Impact Study and
   provided the results of said study to the Interconnection Customer; and
   
   
   
   Whereas, The Interconnection Customer has requested the EDC to perform an
   Interconnection Facilities Study to specify and estimate the cost of the
   equipment, engineering, procurement and construction work needed to implement
   the conclusions of the Interconnection System Impact Study in accordance with
   good utility practice to physically and electrically connect the Small
   Generating Facility to the EDC&#8217;s distribution system.
   
   
   
   Now, therefore, in consideration of and subject to the mutual covenants
   contained herein the Parties agree as follows:
   
   
   
   1.The Interconnection Customer and the EDC shall cause an Interconnection
   Facilities Study consistent with the District of Columbia Small Generator
   Interconnection Rules.
   
   
   
   2.The Interconnection Customer will provide to the EDC the data requested in
   Section 2 of this Form. The scope of the Interconnection Facilities Study
   shall be subject to this data.
   
   
   
   3.An Interconnection Facilities Study report shall: (1) provide a description,
   estimated cost of (consistent with Section 2), and schedule for required
   facilities to interconnect the Small Generator Facility to the EDC&#8217;s
   distribution system; and (2) address the short circuit, instability, and power
   flow issues identified in the Interconnection System Impact Study.
   
   
   
   4.Study fees and deposits shall be based on actual costs in accordance with
   the provisions of the District of Columbia Small Generator Interconnection
   Rules and the Level 2-4 Standard Agreement.
   
   
   
   5.In cases where no upgrades are required, the Interconnection Facilities
   Study shall be completed and the results will be transmitted to the
   Interconnection Customer within thirty calendar days after the agreement is
   signed by the Parties.
   
   
   
   In witness whereof, the Parties have caused this agreement to be duly executed
   by their authorized officers or agents on the day and year written above:
   
   [Insert name of the EDC]
   
   
   
   Signed
   
   
   
   Name                                                       (Printed):
   
                                      Title
   
   
   
   [Insert name of the Interconnection Customer]
   
   
   
   Signed
   
   
   
   Name (Printed):                     Title
   
   
   
   Section 2 to the Interconnection Facilities Study Agreement
   
   Data Requested Herein Shall Accompany the Interconnection Facilities
   StudyAgreement
   
   ·Provide location plan and simplified one-line diagram of the plant and
   station facilities.
   
   ·For staged projects, please indicate future generation, distribution
   circuits, etc. On the one-line diagram, indicate the generation capacity
   attached at each metering location (Maximum load on current
   transformer/potential transformer unit &#8211; CT/PT).
   
   ·On the one-line diagram, indicate the location of auxiliary power. (Minimum
   load on CT/PT), amps.
   
   
   
   One set of metering is required for each generation connection to the new ring
   bus or existing EDC station.
   
   
   
   Identify the number of generation connections:
   
   
   
   Will an alternate source of auxiliary power be available during CT/PT
   maintenance?
   
   
   
   Yes               No                .
   
   
   
   Will a transfer bus on the generation side of the metering require that each
   meter set be designed for the total plant generation?
   
   
   
   Yes               No               (Please indicate on the one-line diagram).
   
   
   
   What type of control system or programmable logic controller (PLC) will be
   located at the Generating Facility?
   
                          .
   
   
   
   What protocol does the control system or PLC use?               .
   
   
   
   Provide a 7.5-minute quadrangle map of the site. Indicate the plant, station,
   distribution line, and property lines.
   
   
   
   Provide the physical dimensions of the proposed interconnection station:      
           .
   
   
   
   Provide the bus length from generation to interconnection station:            
     .
   
   
   
   Provide the line length from interconnection station to the EDC&#8217;s
   distribution system:               .
   
   
   
   Identify the tower number observed in the field.*:               .
   
   
   
   Provide the number of third party easements required for distribution lines*: 
                .
   
   
   
   Please provide the following proposed schedule dates:
   
   
   
   Construction Commencement date:
   
   
   
   Generator step-up transformers receive back feed power date:
   
   
   
   Generation testing date:
   
   
   
   Commercial operation date:
   
   
   
   *To be completed in coordination with EDC
   
   
   
   Interconnection Feasibility Study Agreement
   
   
   
   This agreement is made and entered into this        day of       by and
   between                          , a                     organized and
   existing under the laws of the State of             (&#8220;Interconnection
   Customer,&#8221;) and                       ,a                          
   existing under the laws of the State of                    , (&#8220;Electric
   Distribution Company&#8221; or &#8220;EDC&#8221;). The Interconnection
   Customer and the EDC each may be referred to as a &#8220;Party,&#8221; or
   collectively as the &#8220;Parties.&#8221;
   
   
   
   Recitals:
   
   Whereas, the Interconnection Customer is proposing to develop a Small
   Generating Facility or adding generating capacity to an existing Small
   Generating Facility consistent with the Application completed by the
   Interconnection Customer on ; and
   
   
   
   Whereas, the Interconnection Customer desires to interconnect the Small
   Generating Facility with the EDC&#8217;s electric distribution system; and
   
   
   
   Whereas, the Interconnection Customer has requested the EDC to perform an
   Interconnection Feasibility Study to assess the feasibility of interconnecting
   the proposed Small Generating Facility to the EDC&#8217;s distribution system;
   
   
   
   Now, therefore, in consideration of and subject to the mutual covenants
   contained herein, the Parties agree as follows:
   
   
   
   1.	The Interconnection Customer elects and the EDC shall cause to be performed
   an Interconnection Feasibility Study consistent with the District of Columbia
   Small Generator Interconnection Rules (&#8220;Rules&#8221;).
   
   
   
   2.	The scope of the Interconnection Feasibility Study shall be subject to the
   assumptions set forth in the Rules and in Section 2 of this agreement.
   
   
   
   3.	The Interconnection Feasibility Study shall be based on the technical
   information provided by the Interconnection Customer in Application, as may be
   modified as the result of the Scoping Meeting. The EDC reserves the right to
   request additional technical information from the Interconnection Customer as
   may reasonably become necessary consistent with good utility practice during
   the course of the Interconnection Feasibility Study. If, in the course of the
   Study, the Interconnection Customer finds it necessary to modify the
   Application, the time to complete the Interconnection Feasibility Study may be
   extended by mutual agreement of the Parties.
   
   
   
   4.	In performing the study, the EDC will rely, to the extent reasonably
   practicable, on existing studies of recent vintage. The Interconnection
   Customer will not be charged for such existing studies. The District of
   Columbia Small Generator Interconnection Rules detail cost responsibility
   associated with any new study or modifications to existing studies that are
   reasonably necessary to perform the Interconnection Feasibility Study.
   
   
   
   5.	The Interconnection Feasibility Study report shall provide the following
   information:

   5.1. Preliminary identification of any circuit breaker short circuit
   capability limits exceeded as a result of the interconnection;
   
   
   
   Billing and Payment Procedures and Final Accounting (Applies to additional
   reviews conducted under a Level 2 review and Level 4 reviews)
   
   
   
   5.1.1	The EDC shall bill the Interconnection Customer for the design,
   engineering, construction, and procurement costs of the EDC provided
   Interconnection Facilities and Distribution Upgrades contemplated by this
   Agreement as set forth in Attachment 2, on a monthly basis, or as otherwise
   agreed by the Parties. The Interconnection Customer shall pay each bill within
   thirty (30) calendar days of receipt, or as otherwise agreed to by the
   Parties.
   
   
   
   5.1.2	Within ninety (90) calendar days of completing the construction and
   installation of the EDC&#8217;s Interconnection Facilities and Distribution
   Upgrades described in the Attachments 1 and 2 to this Agreement, the EDC shall
   provide the Interconnection Customer with a final accounting report of any
   difference between (1) the actual cost incurred to complete the construction
   and installation and the budget estimate provided to the Interconnection
   Customer and a written explanation for any significant variation; and (2) the
   Interconnection Customer&#8217;s previous deposit and aggregate payments to
   the EDC for such Interconnection Facilities and Distribution Upgrades. If the
   Interconnection Customer&#8217;s cost responsibility exceeds its previous
   deposit and aggregate payments, the EDC shall invoice the Interconnection
   Customer for the amount due and the Interconnection Customer shall make
   payment to the EDC within thirty (30) calendar days. If the Interconnection
   Customer&#8217;s previous deposit and aggregate payments exceed its cost
   responsibility under this Agreement, the EDC shall refund to the
   Interconnection Customer an amount equal to the difference within thirty (30)
   calendar days of the final accounting report.
   
   
   
   5.1.3	If a Party in good faith disputes any portion of its payment obligation
   pursuant to this Article 5, such Party shall pay in a timely manner all
   non-disputed portions of its invoice, and such disputed amount shall be
   resolved pursuant to the dispute resolution provisions contained in Article 8.
   Provided such Party&#8217;s dispute is in good faith, the disputing Party
   shall not be considered to be in default of its obligations pursuant to this
   Article.

   5.2. Preliminary identification of any thermal overload or voltage limit
   violations resulting from the interconnection; and
   
   
   
   Interconnection Customer Deposit
   
   
   
   When a Level 4 Interconnection Feasibility Study, Interconnection System
   Impact Study, or Interconnection Facility Study or a Level 2 Review of Minor
   Modifications is required under the District of Columbia Small Generator
   Interconnection Rules, the EDC may require the Interconnection Customer to pay
   a deposit equal to 50% of the estimated cost to perform the study or review.
   At least twenty (20) business days prior to the commencement of the design,
   procurement, installation, or construction of a discrete portion of the
   EDC&#8217;s Interconnection Facilities and Distribution Upgrades, the
   Interconnection Customer shall provide the EDC with a deposit equal to 50% of
   the estimated costs prior to its beginning design of such facilities, provided
   the total cost is in excess of $1,000.
   
   
   
   Article 6	Assignment, Limitation on Damages, Indemnity, Force Majeure, and
   Default

   5.3. Preliminary description and non-bonding estimated cost of facilities
   required to interconnect the Small Generating Facility to the EDC&#8217;s
   electric distribution system and to address the identified short circuit and
   power flow issues.
   
   
   
   6.	The Interconnection Feasibility Study shall be completed and the results
   shall be transmitted to Interconnection Customer within thirty calendar days
   after the agreement is signed by the Parties.
   
   
   
   7.	Study fees and deposits shall be based on actual costs in accordance with
   the provisions of the District of Columbia Small Generator Interconnection
   Rules and Level 2-4 Standard Agreement.
   
   
   
   In witness whereof, the Parties have caused this agreement to be duly executed
   by their authorized officers or agents on the day and year first above
   written:
   
   
   
   [Insert name of EDC]
   
   
   
   Signed
   
   Name                                                                       
   (Printed):
   
                                    Title
   
   
   
   [Insert name of Interconnection Customer]
   
   
   
   Signed
   
   Name (Printed):                          Title
   
   
   
   Section 2: Interconnection Feasibility Study AgreementAssumptions Used in
   Conducting the Interconnection Feasibility Study
   
   
   
   The Interconnection Feasibility Study will be based on the information set
   forth in the Application and agreed upon in the Scoping Meeting held on       
                            :
   
   
   
   1. Designation of Point of Interconnection and configuration to be studied.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   2. Designation of alternative Points of Interconnection and configuration.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Note: 1 and 2 are to be completed by the Interconnection Customer. Additional
   assumptions provided by the Interconnection Customer and/or the EDC shall be
   listed below.
   
   
   
   District of Columbia Small Generator Interconnection Rule Level 2-4
   
   Standard Agreement for Interconnection of Small Generator Facilities
   
   
   
   This Agreement is made and entered into this       day of        , by and
   between        , a       organized and existing under the laws of            
   (&#8220;Interconnection Customer,&#8221;) and           , a           ,
   existing under the laws of              , (&#8220;EDC&#8221;). The
   Interconnection Customer and the EDC each may be referred to as a
   &#8220;Party,&#8221; or collectively as the &#8220;Parties.&#8221;
   
   
   
   Recitals:
   
   Whereas, Interconnection Customer is proposing to, install or direct the
   installation of a Small Generator Facility, or is proposing a generating
   capacity addition to an existing Small Generator Facility, consistent with the
   Interconnection Request completed by Interconnection Customer on            ;
   and
   
   
   
   Whereas, the Interconnection Customer will operate and maintain, or cause the
   operation and maintenance of the Small Generator Facility; and
   
   
   
   Whereas, Interconnection Customer desires to interconnect the Small Generator
   Facility with the EDC&#8217;s Electric Distribution System.
   
   
   
   Now, therefore, in consideration of the promises and mutual covenants set
   forth herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt,
   sufficiency and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties
   covenant and agree as follows:
   
   
   
   Article 1	Scope and Limitations of Agreement

   1.1. This Agreement shall be used for all approved Level 2, Level 3 and Level
   4 Interconnection Requests according to the procedures set forth in the
   District of Columbia Small Generator Interconnection Rules.

   1.2. This Agreement governs the terms and conditions under which the Small
   Generator Facility will interconnect to, and operate in Parallel with, the
   EDC&#8217;s Electric Distribution System.

   1.3. This Agreement does not constitute an agreement to purchase or deliver
   the Interconnection Customer&#8217;s power.

   1.4. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to affect any other agreement
   between the EDC and the Interconnection Customer. However, in the event that
   the provisions of this Agreement are in conflict with the provisions of the
   EDC&#8217;s tariff, the EDC tariff shall control.

   1.5. Responsibilities of the Parties
   
   
   
   1.5.1	The Parties shall perform all obligations of this Agreement in
   accordance with all Applicable Laws and Regulations.
   
   
   
   1.5.2	The EDC shall construct, own, operate, and maintain its Interconnection
   Facilities in accordance with this Agreement, IEEE Standard 1547, the National
   Electrical Safety Code and applicable standards promulgated by the District of
   Columbia Public Service Commission.
   
   
   
   1.5.3	The Interconnection Customer shall construct, own, operate, and maintain
   its Interconnection Facilities in accordance with this Agreement, IEEE
   Standard 1547, the National Electrical Code and applicable standards
   promulgated by the District of Columbia Public Service Commission.
   
   
   
   1.5.4	Each Party shall operate, maintain, repair, and inspect, and shall be
   fully responsible for the facilities that it now or subsequently may own
   unless otherwise specified in the attachments to this Agreement. Each Party
   shall be responsible for the safe installation, maintenance, repair and
   condition of their respective lines and appurtenances on their respective
   sides of the Point of Common Coupling.
   
   
   
   1.5.5	The Interconnection Customer agrees to design, install, maintain and
   operate its Small Generator Facility so as to minimize the likelihood of
   causing an Adverse System Impact on an electric system that is not owned or
   operated by the EDC.

   1.6. Metering
   
   
   
   The Interconnection Customer shall be responsible for the cost of the
   purchase, installation, operation, maintenance, testing, repair, and
   replacement of metering and data acquisition equipment specified in
   Attachments 4 and 5 of this Agreement.

   1.7. Reactive Power
   
   
   
   The Interconnection Customer shall design its Small Generator Facility to
   maintain a composite power delivery at continuous rated power output at the
   Point of common coupling at a power factor within the power factor range
   required by the EDC&#8217;s applicable tariff for a comparable load customer.
   The EDC may also require the Interconnection Customer to follow a voltage or
   VAR schedule if such schedules are applicable to similarly situated generators
   in the control area on a comparable basis and have been approved by the
   Commission. The specific requirements for meeting a voltage or VAR schedule
   shall be clearly specified in Attachment 3. Under no circumstance shall these
   additional requirements for reactive power or voltage support exceed the
   normal operating capabilities of the Small Generator Facility.

   1.8. Capitalized Terms
   
   
   
   Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings specified in the
   Definitions section of the District of Columbia Small Generator
   Interconnection Rules or the body of this Agreement.
   
   
   
   Article 2	Inspection, Testing, Authorization, and Right of Access

   2.1. Equipment Testing and Inspection
   
   
   
   The Interconnection Customer shall test and inspect its Small Generator
   Facility including the Interconnection Equipment prior to interconnection in
   accordance with IEEE Standard 1547, IEEE Standard 1547.1, and the technical
   and procedural requirements in the District of Columbia Small Generator
   Interconnection Rule. The Interconnection Customer shall not operate its Small
   Generator Facility in Parallel with the EDC&#8217;s Electric Distribution
   System without prior written authorization by the EDC as provided for in
   Articles 2.1.1 &#8211; 2.1.3.
   
   
   
   2.1.1	The EDC shall have the option of performing a Witness Test after
   construction of the small generator facility is completed. The Interconnection
   Customer shall provide the EDC at least 20 days notice of the planned
   Commissioning Test for the small generator facility. If the EDC elects to
   perform a Witness Test, it shall contact the Interconnection Customer to
   schedule the Witness Test at a mutually agreeable time within 10 business days
   of the scheduled commissioning test. If the EDC does not perform the Witness
   Test within 10 business days of the commissioning test, the Witness Test is
   deemed waived unless the parties mutually agree to extend the date for
   scheduling the Witness Test. If the Witness Test is not acceptable to the EDC,
   the Interconnection Customer will be granted a period of 30 calendar days to
   address and resolve any deficiencies. The time period for addressing and
   resolving any deficiencies may be extended upon the mutual agreement of the
   EDC and the Interconnection Customer. If the Interconnection Customer fails to
   address and resolve the deficiencies to the satisfaction of the EDC, the
   applicable termination provisions of Article 3.3.7 shall apply. If a Witness
   Test is not performed by the EDC or an entity approved by the EDC, the
   Interconnection Customer must still satisfy the interconnection test
   specifications and requirements set forth in IEEE Standard 1547 Section 5. The
   Interconnection Customer shall, if requested by the EDC, provide a copy of all
   documentation in its possession regarding testing conducted pursuant to IEEE
   Standard 1547.1.
   
   
   
   2.1.2	To the extent that the Interconnection Customer decides to conduct
   interim testing of the Small Generator Facility prior to the Witness Test, it
   may request that the EDC observe these tests and that these tests be deleted
   from the final Witness Test. The EDC may, at its own expense, send qualified
   personnel to the Small Generator Facility to observe such interim testing.
   Nothing in this Section 2.1.2 shall require the EDC to observe such interim
   testing or preclude the EDC from performing these tests at the final Witness
   Test. Regardless of whether the EDC observes the interim testing, the
   Interconnection Customer shall obtain permission in advance of each occurrence
   of operating the Small Generator Facility in parallel with the EDC&#8217;s
   system.
   
   
   
   2.1.3	Upon successful completion of the Witness Test, the EDC shall affix an
   authorized signature to the Certificate of Completion and return it to the
   Interconnection Customer approving the interconnection and authorizing
   Parallel Operation. Such authorization shall not be unreasonably withheld,
   conditioned, or delayed.

   2.2. Commercial Operation
   
   
   
   The interconnection customer shall not operate the Small Generator Facility,
   except for interim testing as provided in Article 2.1, until such time as the
   Certificate of Completion is signed by all Parties.

   2.3. Right of Access
   
   
   
   The EDC shall have access to the disconnect switch and metering equipment of
   the Small Generator Facility at all times. The EDC shall provide reasonable
   notice to the customer when possible prior to using its right of access.
   
   
   
   Article 3	Effective Date, Term, Termination, and Disconnection

   3.1. Effective Date
   
   
   
   This Agreement shall become effective upon execution by the Parties.

   3.2. Term of Agreement
   
   
   
   This Agreement shall become effective on the Effective Date and shall remain
   in effect in perpetuity unless terminated earlier in accordance with Article
   3.3 of this Agreement.

   3.3. Termination
   
   
   
   No termination shall become effective until the Parties have complied with all
   Applicable Laws and Regulations applicable to such termination.
   
   
   
   3.3.1	The Interconnection Customer may terminate this Agreement at any time by
   giving the EDC 30 calendar days prior written notice.
   
   
   
   3.3.2	Either Party may terminate this Agreement after default pursuant to
   Article 6.5.
   
   
   
   3.3.3	The EDC may terminate upon 60 calendar days&#8217; prior written notice
   for failure of the Interconnection Customer to complete construction of the
   Small Generator Facility within 12 months of the in-service date as specified
   by the Parties in Attachment 1, which may be extended by mutual agreement of
   the Parties which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   
   
   
   3.3.4	The EDC may terminate this Agreement upon 60 calendar days&#8217; prior
   written notice if the Interconnection Customer fails to operate the Small
   Generator Facility in parallel with EDC&#8217;s electric system for three
   consecutive years.
   
   
   
   3.3.5	Upon termination of this Agreement, the Small Generator Facility will be
   disconnected from the EDC&#8217;s Electric Distribution System. The
   termination of this Agreement shall not relieve either Party of its
   liabilities and obligations, owed or continuing at the time of the
   termination.
   
   
   
   3.3.6	The provisions of this Article shall survive termination or expiration
   of this Agreement.
   
   
   
   3.3.7	The EDC may terminate this Agreement if the Interconnection Customer
   fails to comply with the Witness Test requirement in Article 2.2.1.

   3.4. Temporary Disconnection
   
   
   
   A Party may temporarily disconnect the Small Generator Facility from the
   Electric Distribution System in the event of an Emergency Condition for as
   long as the Party determines it is reasonably necessary in the event one or
   more of the following conditions or events occurs:
   
   
   
   3.4.1	Emergency Conditions &#8211; Emergency Conditions shall mean any
   condition or situation: (1) that in the judgment of the Party making the claim
   is reasonably likely to endanger life or property; or (2) that, in the case of
   the EDC, is reasonably likely to cause an Adverse System Impact; or (3) that,
   in the case of the Interconnection Customer, is reasonably likely (as
   determined in a non-discriminatory manner) to cause a material adverse effect
   on the security of, or damage to, the Small Generator Facility or the
   Interconnection Equipment. Under Emergency Conditions, the EDC or the
   Interconnection Customer may immediately suspend interconnection service and
   temporarily disconnect the Small Generator Facility. The EDC shall notify the
   Interconnection Customer promptly when it becomes aware of an Emergency
   Condition that may reasonably be expected to affect the Interconnection
   Customer&#8217;s operation of the Small Generator Facility. The
   Interconnection Customer shall notify the EDC promptly when it becomes aware
   of an Emergency Condition that may reasonably be expected to affect the
   EDC&#8217;s Electric Distribution System. To the extent information is known,
   the notification shall describe the Emergency Condition, the extent of the
   damage or deficiency, the expected effect on the operation of both
   Parties&#8217; facilities and operations, its anticipated duration, and the
   necessary corrective action.
   
   
   
   3.4.2	Scheduled Maintenance, Construction, or Repair &#8211; The EDC may
   interrupt interconnection service or curtail the output of the Small Generator
   Facility and temporarily disconnect the Small Generator Facility from the
   EDC&#8217;s Electric Distribution System when necessary for scheduled
   maintenance, construction, or repairs on the EDC&#8217;s Electric Distribution
   System. The EDC shall provide the Interconnection Customer with five business
   days notice prior to such interruption. The EDC shall use reasonable efforts
   to coordinate such reduction or temporary disconnection with the
   Interconnection Customer.
   
   
   
   3.4.3	Forced Outages &#8211; With any forced outage, the EDC may suspend
   interconnection service to effect immediate repairs on the EDC&#8217;s
   Electric Distribution System. The EDC shall use reasonable efforts to provide
   the Interconnection Customer with prior notice. If prior notice is not given,
   the EDC shall, upon written request, provide the Interconnection Customer
   written documentation after the fact explaining the circumstances of the
   disconnection.
   
   
   
   3.4.4	Adverse Operating Effects &#8211; The EDC shall provide the
   Interconnection Customer with a written notice of its intention to disconnect
   the Small Generator Facility if, based on the operating requirements specified
   in Attachment 3, the EDC determines that operation of the Small Generator
   Facility will likely cause disruption or deterioration of service to other
   customers served from the same electric system, or if operating the Small
   Generator Facility could cause damage to the EDC&#8217;s Electric Distribution
   System. Supporting documentation used to reach the decision to disconnect
   shall be provided to the Interconnection Customer upon written request. The
   EDC may disconnect the Small Generator Facility if, after receipt of the
   notice, the Interconnection Customer fails to remedy the adverse operating
   effect within a reasonable time unless Emergency Conditions exist in which
   case the provisions of Article 3.4.1 apply.
   
   
   
   3.4.5	Modification of the Small Generator Facility &#8211; The interconnection
   customer shall provide written notification to the EDC before making any
   modifications to the small generator facility. The EDC will determine if the
   modifications are minor or non-minor in nature. Written authorization from the
   EDC is required for non- minor changes if the EDC determines that the
   interconnection customer&#8217;s modifications could cause an Adverse System
   Impact. If the interconnection customer makes such modifications without the
   EDC&#8217;s prior written authorization the EDC shall have the right to
   temporarily disconnect the small generator facility until such time as the EDC
   reasonably concludes the modification poses no threat to the safety or
   reliability of its electric distribution system.
   
   
   
   3.4.6	Reconnection &#8211; The Parties shall cooperate with each other to
   restore the Small Generator Facility, Interconnection Facilities, and
   EDC&#8217;s Electric Distribution System to their normal operating state as
   soon as reasonably practicable following any disconnection pursuant to this
   section; provided, however, if such disconnection is done pursuant to Article
   3.4.5 due to the Interconnection Customer&#8217;s failure to obtain prior
   written authorization from the EDC for Non- Minor Equipment Modifications, the
   EDC shall reconnect the Interconnection Customer only after determining the
   modifications do not impact the safety or reliability of its Electric
   Distribution System.
   
   
   
   Article 4	Cost Responsibility for Interconnection Facilities and Distribution
   Upgrades

   6.1. Assignment
   
   
   
   This Agreement may be assigned by either Party upon fifteen (15) business days
   prior written notice, and with the opportunity to object by the other Party.
   Should the Interconnection Customer assign this agreement, the EDC has the
   right to request that the assignee agree to the assignment and the terms of
   this Agreement in writing. When required, consent to assignment shall not be
   unreasonably withheld; provided that:
   
   
   
   6.1.1	Either Party may assign this Agreement without the consent of the other
   Party to any affiliate (which shall include a merger of the Party with another
   entity), of the assigning Party with an equal or greater credit rating and
   with the legal authority and operational ability to satisfy the obligations of
   the assigning Party under this Agreement;
   
   
   
   6.1.2	The Interconnection Customer shall have the right to assign this
   Agreement, without the consent of the EDC, for collateral security purposes to
   aid in providing financing for the Small Generator Facility, For Small
   Generator systems that are integrated into a building facility, the sale of
   the building or property will result in an automatic transfer of this
   agreement to the new owner who shall be responsible for complying with the
   terms and conditions of this Agreement.
   
   
   
   6.1.3	Any attempted assignment that violates this Article is void and
   ineffective. Assignment shall not relieve a Party of its obligations, nor
   shall a Party&#8217;s obligations be enlarged, in whole or in part, by reason
   thereof. An assignee is responsible for meeting the same obligations as the
   Interconnection Customer.

   6.2. Limitation on Damages
   
   
   
   Except for cases of gross negligence or willful misconduct, the liability of
   any Party to this Agreement shall be limited to direct actual damages, and all
   other damages at law are waived. Under no circumstances, except for cases of
   gross negligence or willful misconduct, shall any Party or its directors,
   officers, employees and agents, or any of them, be liable to another Party,
   whether in tort, contract or other basis in law or equity for any special,
   indirect, punitive, exemplary or consequential damages, including lost
   profits, lost revenues, replacement power, cost of capital or replacement
   equipment. This limitation on damages shall not affect any Party&#8217;s
   rights to obtain equitable relief, including specific performance, as
   otherwise provided in this Agreement. The provisions of this Article 6.2 shall
   survive the termination or expiration of the Agreement.

   6.3. Indemnity
   
   
   
   6.3.1	This provision protects each Party from liability incurred to third
   parties as a result of carrying out the provisions of this Agreement.
   Liability under this provision is exempt from the general limitations on
   liability found in Article 6.2.
   
   
   
   6.3.2	The Parties shall at all times indemnify, defend, and hold the other
   Party harmless from, any and all damages, losses, claims, including claims and
   actions relating to injury to or death of any person or damage to property,
   demand, suits, recoveries, costs and expenses, court costs, attorney fees, and
   all other obligations by or to third parties, arising out of or resulting from
   the other Party&#8217;s action or failure to meet its obligations under this
   Agreement on behalf of the indemnifying Party, except in cases of gross
   negligence or intentional wrongdoing by the indemnified Party.
   
   
   
   6.3.3	Promptly after receipt by an indemnified Party of any claim or notice of
   the commencement of any action or administrative or legal proceeding or
   investigation as to which the indemnity provided for in this Article may
   apply, the indemnified Party shall notify the indemnifying Party of such fact.
   Any failure of or delay in such notification shall not affect a Party&#8217;s
   indemnification obligation unless such failure or delay is materially
   prejudicial to the indemnifying Party.
   
   
   
   6.3.4	If an indemnified Party is entitled to indemnification under this
   Article as a result of a claim by a third party, and the indemnifying Party
   fails, after notice and reasonable opportunity to proceed under this Article,
   to assume the defense of such claim, such indemnified Party may at the expense
   of the indemnifying Party contest, settle or consent to the entry of any
   judgment with respect to, or pay in full, such claim.
   
   
   
   6.3.5	If an indemnifying Party is obligated to indemnify and hold any
   indemnified Party harmless under this Article, the amount owing to the
   indemnified person shall be the amount of such indemnified Party&#8217;s
   actual loss, net of any insurance or other recovery.

   6.4. Force Majeure
   
   
   
   6.4.1	As used in this Article, a Force Majeure Event shall mean any act of
   God, labor disturbance, act of the public enemy, war, acts of terrorism,
   insurrection, riot, fire, storm or flood, explosion, breakage or accident to
   machinery or equipment through no direct, indirect, or contributory act of a
   Party, any order, regulation or restriction imposed by governmental, military
   or lawfully established civilian authorities, or any other cause beyond a
   Party&#8217;s control. A Force Majeure Event does not include an act of gross
   negligence or intentional wrongdoing.
   
   
   
   6.4.2	If a Force Majeure Event prevents a Party from fulfilling any
   obligations under this Agreement, the Party affected by the Force Majeure
   Event (Affected Party) shall promptly notify the other Party of the existence
   of the Force Majeure Event. The notification must specify in reasonable detail
   the circumstances of the Force Majeure Event, its expected duration, and the
   steps that the Affected Party is taking and will take to mitigate the effects
   of the event on its performance, and if the initial notification was verbal,
   it should be promptly followed up with a written notification. The Affected
   Party shall keep the other Party informed on a continuing basis of
   developments relating to the Force Majeure Event until the event ends. The
   Affected Party shall be entitled to suspend or modify its performance of
   obligations under this Agreement (other than the obligation to make payments)
   only to the extent that the effect of the Force Majeure Event cannot be
   reasonably mitigated. The Affected Party shall use reasonable efforts to
   resume its performance as soon as possible.

   6.5. Default
   
   
   
   6.5.1	No default shall exist where such failure to discharge an obligation
   (other than the payment of money) is the result of a Force Majeure Event as
   defined in this Agreement, or the result of an act or omission of the other
   Party.
   
   
   
   6.5.2	Upon a default of this Agreement, the non-defaulting Party shall give
   written notice of such default to the defaulting Party. Except as provided in
   Article 6.5.3 the defaulting Party shall have 60 calendar days from receipt of
   the default notice within which to cure such default; provided however, if
   such default is not capable of cure within 60 calendar days, the defaulting
   Party shall commence such cure within 20 calendar days after notice and
   continuously and diligently complete such cure within six months from receipt
   of the default notice; and, if cured within such time, the default specified
   in such notice shall cease to exist.
   
   
   
   6.5.3	If a Party has made an assignment of this Agreement not specifically
   authorized by Article 6.1, fails to provide reasonable access pursuant to
   Article 2.3, is in default of its obligations pursuant to Article 7, or if a
   Party is in default of its payment obligations pursuant to Article 5 of this
   Agreement, the defaulting Party shall have 30 days from receipt of the default
   notice within which to cure such default.
   
   
   
   6.5.4	If a default is not cured as provided for in this Article, or if a
   default is not capable of being cured within the period provided for herein,
   the non-defaulting Party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by
   written notice at any time until cure occurs, and be relieved of any further
   obligation hereunder and, whether or not that Party terminates this Agreement,
   to recover from the defaulting Party all amounts due hereunder, plus all other
   damages and remedies to which it is entitled at law or in equity. The
   provisions of this Article will survive termination of this Agreement.
   
   
   
   Article 7	Insurance
   
   
   
   For Small Generator Facilities with a Nameplate Capacity of 1 MW or above, the
   Interconnection Customer shall carry adequate insurance coverage that shall be
   acceptable to the EDC; provided, that the maximum comprehensive/general
   liability coverage that shall be continuously maintained by the
   Interconnection Customer during the term shall be not less than $2,000,000 for
   each occurrence, and an aggregate, if any, of at least $4,000,000. The EDC,
   its officers, employees and agents will be added as an additional insured on
   this policy.
   
   
   
   Article 8	Dispute Resolution

   8.1. A party shall attempt to resolve all disputes regarding interconnection
   as provided in this Agreement and the District of Columbia Small Generator
   Interconnection Rule promptly, equitably, and in a good faith manner.

   8.2. When a dispute arises, a party may seek immediate resolution through
   complaint procedures available through the Commission, or an alternative
   dispute resolution process approved by the Commission, by providing written
   notice to the Commission and the other party stating the issues in dispute.
   Dispute resolution will be conducted in an informal, expeditious manner to
   reach resolution with minimal costs and delay. When available, dispute
   resolution may be conducted by phone.

   8.3. When disputes relate to the technical application of this Agreement and
   the District of Columbia Small Generator Interconnection Rule, the Commission
   may designate a technical consultant to resolve the dispute. Upon Commission
   designation, the parties shall use the technical consultant to resolve
   disputes related to interconnection. Costs for a dispute resolution conducted
   by the technical consultant shall be established by the technical consultant,
   subject to review by the Commission.

   8.4. Pursuit of dispute resolution may not affect an Interconnection Customer
   with regard to consideration of an Interconnection Request or an
   Interconnection Customer&#8217;s queue position.

   8.5. If the Parties fail to resolve their dispute under the dispute resolution
   provisions of this Article, nothing in this Article shall affect any
   Party&#8217;s rights to obtain equitable relief, including specific
   performance, as otherwise provided in this Agreement.
   
   
   
   Article 9	Miscellaneous

   9.1. Governing Law, Regulatory Authority, and Rules
   
   
   
   The validity, interpretation and enforcement of this Agreement and each of its
   provisions shall be governed by the laws of the District of Columbia, without
   regard to its conflicts of law principles. This Agreement is subject to all
   Applicable Laws and Regulations.

   9.2. Amendment
   
   
   
   Modification of this Agreement shall be only by a written instrument duly
   executed by both Parties.

   9.3. No Third-Party Beneficiaries
   
   
   
   This Agreement is not intended to and does not create rights, remedies, or
   benefits of any character whatsoever in favor of any persons, corporations,
   associations, or entities other than the Parties, and the obligations herein
   assumed are solely for the use and benefit of the Parties, their successors in
   interest and where permitted, their assigns.

   9.4. Waiver
   
   
   
   9.4.1	The failure of a Party to this Agreement to insist, on any occasion,
   upon strict performance of any provision of this Agreement shall not be
   considered a waiver of any obligation, right, or duty of, or imposed upon,
   such Party.
   
   
   
   9.4.2	Any waiver at any time by either Party of its rights with respect to
   this Agreement shall not be deemed a continuing waiver or a waiver with
   respect to any other failure to comply with any other obligation, right, duty
   of this Agreement. Termination or default of this Agreement for any reason by
   Interconnection Customer shall not constitute a waiver of the Interconnection
   Customer&#8217;s legal rights to obtain an interconnection from EDC. Any
   waiver of this Agreement shall, if requested, be provided in writing.

   9.5. Entire Agreement
   
   
   
   This Agreement, including all attachments, constitutes the entire Agreement
   between the Parties with reference to the subject matter hereof, and
   supersedes all prior and contemporaneous understandings or agreements, oral or
   written, between the Parties with respect to the subject matter of this
   Agreement. There are no other agreements, representations, warranties, or
   covenants that constitute any part of the consideration for, or any condition
   to, either Party&#8217;s compliance with its obligations under this Agreement.

   9.6. Multiple Counterparts
   
   
   
   This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which is
   deemed an original but all constitute one and the same instrument.

   9.7. No Partnership
   
   
   
   This Agreement shall not be interpreted or construed to create an association,
   joint venture, agency relationship, or partnership between the Parties or to
   impose any partnership obligation or partnership liability upon either Party.
   Neither Party shall have any right, power or authority to enter into any
   agreement or undertaking for, or act on behalf of, or to act as or be an agent
   or representative of, or to otherwise bind, the other Party.

   9.8. Severability
   
   
   
   If any provision or portion of this Agreement shall for any reason be held or
   adjudged to be invalid or illegal or unenforceable by any court of competent
   jurisdiction or other governmental authority, (1) such portion or provision
   shall be deemed separate and independent, (2) the Parties shall negotiate in
   good faith to restore insofar as practicable the benefits to each Party that
   were affected by such ruling, and (3) the remainder of this Agreement shall
   remain in full force and effect.

   9.9. Environmental Releases
   
   
   
   Each Party shall notify the other Party, first orally and then in writing, of
   the release any hazardous substances, any asbestos or lead abatement
   activities, or any type of remediation activities related to the Small
   Generator Facility or the Interconnection Facilities, each of which may
   reasonably be expected to affect the other Party. The notifying Party shall
   (1) provide the notice as soon as practicable, provided such Party makes a
   good faith effort to provide the notice no later than 24 hours after such
   Party becomes aware of the occurrence, and (2) promptly furnish to the other
   Party copies of any publicly available reports filed with any governmental
   authorities addressing such events.

   9.10. Subcontractors
   
   
   
   Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent a Party from utilizing the services of
   any subcontractor as it deems appropriate to perform its obligations under
   this Agreement; provided, however, that each Party shall require its
   subcontractors to comply with all applicable terms and conditions of this
   Agreement in providing such services and each Party shall remain primarily
   liable to the other Party for the performance of such subcontractor.
   
   
   
   9.10.1	The creation of any subcontract relationship shall not relieve the
   hiring Party of any of its obligations under this Agreement. The hiring Party
   shall be fully responsible to the other Party for the acts or omissions of any
   subcontractor the hiring Party hires as if no subcontract had been made. Any
   applicable obligation imposed by this Agreement upon the hiring Party shall be
   equally binding upon, and shall be construed as having application to, any
   subcontractor of such Party.
   
   
   
   9.10.2	The obligations under this Article will not be limited in any way by
   any limitation of subcontractor&#8217;s insurance.
   
   
   
   Article 10	Notices

   10.1. General
   
   
   
   Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, any written notice, demand, or
   request required or authorized in connection with this Agreement
   (&#8220;Notice&#8221;) shall be deemed properly given if delivered in person,
   delivered by recognized national courier service, or sent by first class mail,
   postage prepaid, to the person specified below:
   
   
   
   If to Interconnection Customer:
   
   
   
   Interconnection Customer:
   
   Attention:
   
   Address:
   
   City:           State:                Zip:
   
   Phone:                Fax:              E-mail
   
   If to EDC:
   
   EDC
   
   
   
   Attention:
   
   Address:
   
   City:           State:                Zip:
   
   Phone:                Fax:               E-mail

   10.2. Billing and Payment
   
   
   
   Billings and payments shall be sent to the addresses set forth below:
   
   
   
   If to Interconnection Customer
   
   Interconnection Customer:
   
   Attention:
   
   Address:
   
   City:           State:               Zip:
   
   
   
   If to EDC
   
   EDC:
   
   Attention:
   
   Address:
   
   City:           State:               Zip:

   10.3. Designated Operating Representative
   
   
   
   The Parties may also designate operating representatives to conduct the
   communications which may be necessary or convenient for the administration of
   this Agreement. This person will also serve as the point of contact with
   respect to operations and maintenance of the Party&#8217;s facilities.
   
   
   
   Interconnection Customer&#8217;s Operating Representative:
   
   Attention:
   
   Address:
   
   City:           State:               Zip:
   
   Phone:                 Fax:               E-Mail
   
   
   
   EDC&#8217;s Operating Representative:
   
   Attention:
   
   Address:
   
   City:           State:               Zip:
   
   Phone:                 Fax:

   10.4. Changes to the Notice Information
   
   Either Party may change this notice information by giving five business days
   written notice prior to the effective date of the change.
   
   
   
   Article 11	Signatures
   
   
   
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by
   their respective duly authorized representatives.
   
   
   
   For the Interconnection Customer:
   
   Name:
   
   Title:
   
   Date:
   
   
   
   For EDC:
   
   Name:
   
   Title:
   
   Date:
   
   
   
   
   
   Attachment 1
   
   
   
   Construction Schedule, Proposed Equipment &#038; Settings
   
   
   
   This attachment shall include the following:
   
   
   
   1	The construction schedule for the Small Generator Facility
   
   
   
   2	A one-line diagram indicating the Small Generator Facility, Interconnection
   Equipment, Interconnection Facilities, Metering Equipment, and Distribution
   Upgrades
   
   
   
   3	Component specifications for equipment identified in the one-line diagram
   
   
   
   4	Component settings
   
   
   
   5	Proposed sequence of operations
   
   
   
   
   
   Attachment 2
   
   
   
   Description, Costs and Time Required to Build and Install the
   EDC&#8217;sInterconnection Facilities
   
   
   
   The EDC&#8217;s Interconnection Facilities including any required metering
   shall be itemized and a best estimate of itemized costs, including overheads,
   shall be provided based on the Facilities Study.
   
   
   
   Also, a best estimate for the time required to build and install the
   EDC&#8217;s Interconnection Facilities will be provided based on the
   Facilities Study.
   
   
   
   
   
   Attachment 3
   
   Operating Requirements for Small Generator Facilities Operating in Parallel
   
   
   
   Applicable sections of the EDC&#8217;s operating manuals applying to the small
   generator interconnection shall be listed and Internet links shall be
   provided. Any special operating requirements not contained in the EDC&#8217;s
   existing operating manuals shall be clearly identified. The EDC&#8217;s
   operating requirements shall not impose additional technical or procedural
   requirements on the small generator facility beyond those found in the
   District of Columbia Small Generator Interconnection Rules, except those
   required for safety.
   
   
   
   
   
   Attachment 4
   
   
   
   Monitoring and Control Requirements
   
   
   
   EDC monitoring and control requirements shall be clearly specified and a
   reference shall be provided to the EDC&#8217;s written requirements documents
   from which these documents are derived along with an internet link to the
   requirements documents. EDC monitoring and control of small generator
   facilities shall be permitted only if the nameplate rating is equal to or
   greater than 3 MW.
   
   
   
   
   
   Attachment 5
   
   
   
   Metering Requirements
   
   
   
   Metering requirements for the Small Generator Facility shall be clearly
   indicated along with an identification of the appropriate tariffs that
   establish these requirements and an internet link to these tariffs.
   
   
   
   
   
   Attachment 6
   
   As Built Documents
   
   
   
   After completion of the Small Generator Facility, the Interconnection Customer
   shall provide the EDC with documentation indicating the as built status of the
   following when it returns the Certificate of Completion to the EDC:
   
   
   
   1	A one-line diagram indicating the Small Generator Facility, Interconnection
   Equipment,
   
   Interconnection Facilities, Metering Equipment, and Distribution Upgrades
   
   
   
   2	Component specifications for equipment identified in the one-line diagram
   
   
   
   3	Component settings
   
   
   
   4	Proposed sequence of operations
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 1415, 1418
   (February 13, 2009).
