                                  DC REGULATIONS

LEVEL 2 INTERCONNECTION REVIEWS (ยง 15-4005)

4005.1. The EDC shall use the Level 2 review procedure for an interconnection
   request when:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nameplate capacity rating is 2 MW or less;
   
   
   
   (b)	The interconnection equipment proposed for the small generator facility is
   certified; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The proposed interconnection is to a radial distribution circuit or to a
   spot network serving one customer.

   4005.2. For Level 2 Adverse Impact Screens, the EDC shall evaluate the
   potential or adverse system impacts using the following screens which must be
   satisfied:
   
   
   
   (a)	For interconnection of a proposed small generator facility to a radial
   distribution circuit, the aggregated generation on the line section, including
   the proposed small generator facility, may not exceed fifteen (15) percent of
   the line section annual peak load.
   
   
   
   (b)	For interconnection of a proposed small generator facility to the load
   side of a spot network that protector supplies one specific service point, the
   proposed small generator facility shall utilize a certified inverter-based
   equipment package and may not exceed five (5) percent of the spot
   network&#8217;s maximum load.
   
   
   
   (c)	For spot network interconnection, the generation shall not result in any
   reverse power conditions through the EDC network protectors. The proposed
   small generator facility cannot cause network protector cycling, cause
   inadvertent network protector opening, or have adverse impacts on any other
   customer under any conditions (including under fault conditions).
   
   
   
   (d)	The proposed small generator facility, in aggregation with other
   generation on the distribution circuit, may not contribute more than ten (10)
   percent to the distribution circuit&#8217;s maximum fault current at the point
   on the primary line nearest the point of common coupling.
   
   
   
   (e)	The proposed small generator facility, in aggregate with other generation
   on the distribution circuit, may not cause any distribution protective devices
   and equipment (including substation breakers, fuse cutouts, and line
   reclosers), or other customer equipment on the electric distribution system to
   be exposed to fault currents exceeding 87.5 percent of the short circuit
   interrupting capability. The interconnection request may not receive approval
   for interconnection on a circuit that already exceeds 87.5 percent of the
   short circuit interrupting capability.
   
   
   
   (f)	The proposed small generator facility&#8217;s point of common coupling may
   not be on a transmission line.
   
   
   
   (g)	When a customer-generator facility is to be connected to three- phase,
   three-wire primary EDC distribution lines, a three-phase or single-phase
   generator shall be connected phase-to-phase.
   
   
   
   (h)	When a customer-generator facility is to be connected to three-phase,
   four-wire primary EDC distribution lines, a three-phase or single-phase
   generator shall be connected line-to-neutral and shall be effectively
   grounded.
   
   
   
   (i)	When the proposed small generator facility is to be interconnected on
   single-phase shared secondary line, the aggregate generation capacity on the
   shared secondary line, including the proposed small generator facility, shall
   not exceed 20 kW.
   
   
   
   (j)	When a proposed small generator facility is single-phase and is to be
   interconnected on a center tap neutral of a 240 volt service, its addition may
   not create an imbalance between the two sides of the 240 volt service of more
   than twenty (20) percent of the nameplate rating of the service transformer.
   
   
   
   (k)	A small generator facility, in aggregate with other generation
   interconnected to the distribution side of a substation transformer feeding
   the circuit where the small generator facility proposes to interconnect, may
   not exceed 10 MW in an area where there are known or posted transient
   stability limitations to generating units located in the general electrical
   vicinity.
   
   
   
   (l)	Except as permitted by an additional review in Level 2 Procedures, Section
   4005.7, no construction of facilities by an EDC on its own system shall be
   required to accommodate the small generator facility.

   4005.3. Interconnection to area networks is not permitted under the Level 2
   review process.

   4005.4. The Level 2 interconnection review shall be conducted in accordance
   with the following procedures:
   
   
   
   (a)	An EDC shall, within ten (10) business days after receipt of the
   interconnection request, inform the interconnection customer in writing or by
   electronic mail that the interconnection request is complete or incomplete. As
   part of this process, the EDC shall assign a queue position. The queue
   position of the interconnection request shall be used to determine the
   potential adverse system impact of the small generator facility based on the
   relevant screening criteria. If there are higher queued interconnection
   customers on the same radial line circuit or spot network, the EDC shall
   evaluate the interconnection request by performing any Level 2 screens
   requiring aggregate capacity calculations and determine if the small generator
   facility exceeds any of the aggregate capacity requirements. If an aggregate
   capacity requirement is exceeded, the EDC shall not be obligated to meet the
   timeline for reviewing the interconnection request until such time as the EDC
   has completed the review of all other interconnection requests that have a
   higher queue position and impact the aggregate capacity calculation that has
   been exceeded and shall so notify the interconnection customer.
   
   
   
   (b)	When an EDC determines that additional information is required to complete
   an evaluation, the EDC shall request the information. The time necessary to
   complete the evaluation may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties,
   but only to the extent of the time required for receipt of the additional
   information. During an extension of time to submit additional information, the
   EDC may not begin a new review process or alter the interconnection
   customer&#8217;s queue position.
   
   
   
   (c)	Within twenty (20) business days after the EDC notifies the
   interconnection customer that it has received a completed interconnection
   request, the EDC shall:
   
   
   
   (1)	Evaluate the interconnection request using the Level 2 screening criteria;
   
   
   
   (2)	Review the interconnection customer&#8217;s analysis, if provided by the
   interconnection customer, using the same criteria used by the customer;
   
   
   
   (3)	Conduct a spot network impact study at its own expense within the above
   noted timeframe, if deemed necessary by the EDC; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Provide the interconnection customer with the EDC&#8217;s evaluation,
   including a comparison of the results of its own analyses with those of
   interconnection customer, if applicable. When an EDC does not have a record of
   receipt of the interconnection request and the interconnection customer can
   demonstrate that the original interconnection request was delivered, the EDC
   shall expedite its review to complete the evaluation of the interconnection
   request within twenty (20) business days of the interconnection
   customer&#8217;s re-submittal.

   4005.5. When an EDC determines that the interconnection request passes the
   Level 2 screening criteria, the EDC shall provide the interconnection customer
   a small generator interconnection agreement within five (5) business days
   after the determination.

   4005.6. When an EDC determines that the interconnection request fails one (1)
   or more of the Level 2 screening criteria but determines that the small
   generator facility can be interconnected safely and reliably, the EDC shall
   provide the interconnection customer a small generator interconnection
   agreement within five (5) business days after the determination.

   4005.7. Additional review may be appropriate when a small generator facility
   has failed to meet one or more of the Level 2 screens. An EDC shall offer to
   perform additional review to determine whether minor modifications to the
   electric distribution system would enable the interconnection to be made
   consistent with safety, reliability and power quality criteria. The EDC shall
   provide the interconnection customer with a nonbinding, good faith estimate of
   the costs of additional review and minor modifications. The EDC shall
   undertake the additional review or modifications only after the
   interconnection customer consents to pay for the review and modifications.

   4005.8. An interconnection customer shall have thirty (30) business days to
   sign and return the agreement. When an interconnection customer does not sign
   the agreement within thirty (30) business days, the interconnection request
   shall be deemed withdrawn unless the interconnection customer requests to have
   the deadline extended in writing prior to the expiration of the thirty (30)
   business day period. The request for extension may not be unreasonably denied
   by the EDC.

   4005.9. When construction is required under the provisions of Sections 4005.5
   and 4005.6, the interconnection of the small generator facility shall proceed
   according to all milestones agreed to by the parties in the small generator
   interconnection agreement. The small generator interconnection agreement shall
   not become final until:
   
   
   
   (a)	The milestones agreed to in the small generator interconnection agreement
   are satisfied;
   
   
   
   (b)	The small generator facility is approved by electric code officials with
   jurisdiction over the interconnection;
   
   
   
   (c)	The interconnection customer provides a certificate of completion to the
   EDC. Completion of local inspections may be designated on inspection forms
   used by local inspecting authorities; and
   
   
   
   (d)	There is a successful completion of the witness test per the terms and
   conditions found in the Standard Agreement for Interconnection of Small
   Generator Facilities, unless waived.

   4005.10. If the small generator facility is not approved under a Level 2
   review, the EDC shall provide the interconnection customer a letter explaining
   its reasons for denying the interconnection request. The interconnection
   customer may submit a new interconnection request for consideration under a
   Level 3 or Level 4 interconnection review. The queue position assigned to the
   Level 2 interconnection request shall be retained provided the request is made
   within fifteen (15) business days of notification that the current
   interconnection request is denied.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 1415, 1418
   (February 13, 2009).
