                                  DC REGULATIONS

LEVEL 3 INTERCONNECTION REVIEWS (ยง 15-4006)

4006.1. The EDC shall use Level 3 review procedures for evaluating
   interconnection requests to area networks and radial distribution circuits
   where power shall not be exported based on the criteria in this section;
   however, interconnection to spot networks is not permitted under the Level 3
   review process.

   4006.2. For interconnection requests to the load side of an area network the
   following criteria shall be satisfied to qualify for a Level 3 expedited
   review:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nameplate capacity of the small generator facility is less than or
   equal to 50 kW; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The proposed small generator facility utilizes a certified inverter-based
   equipment package.

   4006.3. For Level 3A Adverse Impact Screens, the EDC shall evaluate the
   potential for adverse system impacts using the following screens which must be
   satisfied:
   
   
   
   (a)	If the small generator facility utilizes reverse power relays and/or other
   protection functions that prevent power flow to the area network, the proposed
   small generator facility cannot cause network protector cycling; cause
   inadvertent network protector opening; or impact any other customer under any
   conditions (including under fault conditions);
   
   
   
   (b)	The aggregated other generation on the area network may not exceed the
   smaller of five (5) percent of an area network&#8217;s maximum load or 50 kW;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	No construction of facilities by the EDC shall be required to accommodate
   the small generator facility.

   4006.4. For Level 3A, the EDC shall use the additional review procedures
   listed in Section 4006.8 and the following review procedures:
   
   
   
   (a)	The EDC shall evaluate the interconnection request under Level 2
   interconnection review procedures as set forth in Level 3A Procedures except
   that the EDC may have twenty-five (25) business days to conduct an area
   network impact study at its own expense to determine any potential adverse
   system impacts of interconnecting to the EDC&#8217;s area network.
   
   
   
   (b)	In the event the area network impact study identifies potential adverse
   system impacts, the EDC may determine at its sole discretion that it is
   inappropriate for the small generator facility to interconnect to the area
   network in which case the interconnection request shall be denied; however,
   the interconnection customer may elect to submit a new interconnection request
   for consideration under Level 4 procedures in which case the queue position
   assigned to the Level 3 interconnection request shall be retained provided the
   request is made within fifteen (15) business days of notification that the
   current application is denied.
   
   
   
   (c)	In the event the EDC denies the interconnection request, the EDC shall
   provide the interconnection customer with a copy of its area network impact
   study and written justification for denying the interconnection request.

   4006.5. For interconnection requests to a radial distribution circuit, the
   following criteria shall be satisfied to qualify for a Level 3 review:
   
   
   
   (a)	The small generator facility has a nameplate capacity of 10 MW or less;
   
   
   
   (b)	The aggregated total of the nameplate capacity of all of the generators on
   the circuit, including the proposed small generator facility, is 10 MW or
   less;
   
   
   
   (c)	The small generator shall use reverse power relays or other protection
   functions that prevent power flow onto the electric distribution system;
   
   
   
   (d)	The small generator is not served by a shared transformer; and
   
   
   
   (e)	No construction of facilities by the electric distribution company on its
   own system shall be required to accommodate the small generator facility.

   4006.6. Level 3.B Adverse Impact Screens are the same as the Level 2 adverse
   impact screens.

   4006.7. Level 3.B review procedures are the same as Level 2 review procedures,
   except that Section 4006.8 contains additional procedures for all Level 3
   requests.

   4006.8. The following additional procedures shall apply to all Level 3
   interconnection requests:
   
   
   
   (a)	Once the interconnection request is deemed complete by the EDC, the EDC
   shall assign a queue position based upon the date and time the interconnection
   request is determined to be complete. The queue position of each
   interconnection request shall be used to determine the potential adverse
   system impact of the small generator facility based on the relevant screening
   criteria. The interconnection customer shall proceed under the timeframes of
   this section. The EDC shall notify the interconnection customer about other
   higher-queued interconnection customers on the same radial line or area
   network to which the interconnection customer is seeking to interconnect.
   
   
   
   (b)	The interconnection customer shall have thirty (30) business days after
   submission of the small generator interconnection agreement to sign and return
   the small generator interconnection agreement. If the interconnection customer
   does not sign the small generator interconnection agreement within thirty (30)
   business days, the request shall be deemed withdrawn unless the parties
   mutually agree in writing to extend the time period for executing the small
   generator interconnection agreement prior to the expiration of the thirty (30)
   business day period. After the small generator interconnection agreement is
   signed by the parties, interconnection of the small generator facility shall
   proceed according to all milestones agreed to by the parties in the small
   generator interconnection agreement.
   
   
   
   (c)	The interconnection agreement shall not be final until:
   
   
   
   (1)	All milestones agreed to in the small generator interconnection agreement
   are satisfied;
   
   
   
   (2)	The small generator facility is approved by electric code officials with
   jurisdiction over the interconnection;
   
   
   
   (3)	The interconnection customer provides a certificate of completion to the
   EDC; and
   
   
   
   (4)	There is a successful completion of the witness test per the terms and
   conditions found in the Standard Agreement for Interconnection of Small
   Generator Facilities unless waived.
   
   
   
   (d)	If the small generator facility is not approved under a Level 3 review,
   the interconnection customer may submit a new interconnection request for
   consideration under the Level 4 procedures without sacrificing the original
   queue position, provided the revised interconnection request is submitted
   within fifteen (15) business days of notice that the current request has not
   been approved.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 1415, 1418
   (February 13, 2009).
