                                  DC REGULATIONS

TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND ADDITIONAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS (ยง 15-4008)

4008.1. The technical standard to be used in evaluating all interconnection
   requests under Level 1, Level 2, Level 3 and Level 4 reviews, unless otherwise
   provided for in these procedures, is IEEE Standard 1547. Until IEEE 1547.2,
   &#8220;Application Guide for IEEE 1547 Standard for Interconnecting
   Distributed Resources with Electric Power Systems&#8221; is completed and
   approved, the PJM Interconnection Planning Manual Attachment H, which is
   available at www.pjm.com/committees/mrc/downloads/20060911-item-03-
   attachment-h-to-manual-14b-2-to-10-mw.pdf, shall be used as a guide (but not a
   requirement) to detail and illustrate the interconnection protection
   requirements that are provided in IEEE 1547.

   4008.2. When an interconnection request is for a small generator facility that
   includes multiple energy production devices at a site for which the
   interconnection customer seeks a single point of common coupling, the
   interconnection request shall be evaluated on the basis of the aggregate
   nameplate capacity of multiple devices.

   4008.3. When an interconnection request is for an increase in capacity for an
   existing small generator facility, the interconnection request shall be
   evaluated on the basis of the new total nameplate capacity of the small
   generator facility.

   4008.4. An EDC shall maintain records of the following for a minimum of three
   (3) years:
   
   
   
   (a)	The total number of and the nameplate capacity of the interconnection
   requests received, approved and denied under Level 1, Level 2, Level 3 and
   Level 4 reviews;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number of interconnection requests that were not processed within the
   timelines established in this rule;
   
   
   
   (c)	The number of scoping meetings held and the number of feasibility studies,
   impact studies, and facility studies performed and the fees charged for these
   studies;
   
   
   
   (d)	The justifications for the actions taken to deny interconnection requests;
   and
   
   
   
   (e)	Any special operating requirements required in interconnection agreements
   that are not part of the EDC&#8217;s written and published operating
   procedures applicable to small generator facilities.

   4008.5. An EDC shall provide a report to the Commission containing the
   information required in Section 4008.4, paragraphs (a)-(c) within ninety (90)
   calendar days of the close of each year.

   4008.6. An EDC shall designate a contact person and contact information on its
   website and the Commission&#8217;s website for submission of all
   interconnection requests and from whom information on the interconnection
   request process and the EDC&#8217;s electric distribution system can be
   obtained regarding a proposed project. The information shall include studies
   and other materials useful to an understanding of the feasibility of
   interconnecting a small generator facility at a particular point on the
   EDC&#8217;s electric distribution system, except to the extent that providing
   the materials would violate security requirements or confidentiality
   agreements, or otherwise deemed contrary to District or federal
   law/regulations. In appropriate circumstances, the EDC may require
   confidentiality prior to release of information.

   4008.7. When an interconnection request is deemed complete, a modification
   other than a minor equipment modification that is not agreed to in writing by
   the EDC, shall require submission of a new interconnection request.

   4008.8. When an interconnection customer is not currently a customer of the
   EDC at the proposed site, the interconnection customer, upon request from the
   EDC, shall provide proof of site control evidenced by a property tax bill,
   deed, lease agreement, or other legally binding contract.

   4008.9. To minimize the cost of interconnecting multiple small generator
   facilities, the EDC or the customer may propose a single point of common
   coupling for multiple small generator facilities located at a single site. If
   the interconnection customer rejects the EDC&#8217;s proposal for a single
   point of common coupling, the interconnection customer shall pay the
   additional cost, if any, of providing a separate point of common coupling for
   each small generator facility. If the EDC rejects the customer&#8217;s
   proposal for a single point of common coupling without providing a written
   technical explanation, the EDC shall pay the additional cost, if any, of
   providing a separate point of common coupling for each small generator
   facility.

   4008.10. Small generator facilities shall be capable of being isolated from
   the EDC. For level 2-4 small generator facilities interconnecting to a primary
   line, the isolation shall be by means of a lockable, visible-break isolation
   device accessible by the EDC. For level 2-4 small generator facilities
   interconnecting to a secondary line, the isolation shall be by means of a
   lockable isolation device whose status is clearly indicated and is accessible
   by the EDC. The isolation device shall be installed, owned and maintained by
   the owner of the small generation facility and located between the small
   generation facility and the point of common coupling. A draw-out type circuit
   breaker with a provision for padlocking at the draw-out position can be
   considered an isolation device for purposes of this requirement. Level 1
   interconnections do not require an external isolation device.

   4008.11. A level 2-4 interconnection customer may elect to provide the EDC
   access to an isolation device that is contained in a building or area that may
   be unoccupied and locked or not otherwise readily accessible to the EDC, by
   installing a lockbox provided by the EDC that shall provide ready access to
   the isolation device. The interconnection customer shall install the lockbox
   in a location that is readily accessible by the EDC, and the interconnection
   customer shall permit the EDC to affix a placard in a location of its choosing
   that provides clear instructions to the EDC&#8217;s operating personnel on
   access to the isolation device. In the event that the interconnection customer
   fails to comply with the terms of this subsection and the EDC needs to gain
   access to the isolation device, the EDC shall not be held liable for any
   damages resulting from any necessary EDC action to isolate the interconnection
   customer.

   4008.12. Any metering necessitated by a small generator interconnection shall
   be installed, operated and maintained in accordance with applicable tariffs.
   Any such metering requirements shall be clearly identified as part of the
   small generator interconnection agreement executed by the interconnection
   customer and the EDC.

   4008.13. The EDC shall design, procure, construct, install, and own any
   Distribution Upgrades. The actual cost of the Distribution Upgrades, including
   overheads, shall be directly assigned to the interconnection customer. The
   interconnection customer may be entitled to financial contribution from any
   other EDC customers who may in the future utilize the upgrades paid for by the
   interconnection customer. Such contributions shall be governed by the rules,
   regulations, and decisions of the Commission.

   4008.14. EDC monitoring and control of small generator facilities shall be
   permitted only if the nameplate rating is equal to or greater than 3 MW. Any
   monitoring and control requirements shall be consistent with the EDC&#8217;s
   written and published requirements and shall be clearly identified as part of
   an interconnection agreement executed by the interconnection customer and the
   EDC.

   4008.15. The interconnection customer shall design its Small Generator
   Facility to maintain a composite power delivery at continuous rated power
   output at the Point of common coupling at a power factor within the power
   factor range required by the EDC&#8217;s applicable tariff for a comparable
   load customer. The EDC may also require the Interconnection Customer to follow
   a voltage or VAR schedule if such schedules are applicable to similarly
   situated generators in the control area on a comparable basis and have been
   approved by the Commission. The specific requirements for meeting a voltage or
   VAR schedule shall be clearly specified in Attachment 3 of the &#8220;District
   of Columbia Small Generator Interconnection Rule Level 2-4 Standard Agreement
   for Interconnection of Small Generator Facilities&#8221;. (Under no
   circumstance shall these additional requirements for reactive power or voltage
   support exceed the normal operating capabilities of the Small Generator
   Facility.)
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 1415, 1418
   (February 13, 2009).
