                                  DC REGULATIONS

ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE (§ 19-2700)

2700.1. There is established as an independent authority of the District
   government a District of Columbia Sports Commission (the “Commission”).

   2700.2. The Commission is created as a corporate body and instrumentality of
   the District for the following purposes:
   
   
   
   (a)	Promoting the District as a location for holding sporting events which
   will enhance the District’s economic development through, among other
   things, tourism, job opportunities, entertainment, business development, and
   national and international exposure;
   
   
   
   (b)	Providing community outreach and grassroots recreation for all residents
   of the District, especially children;
   
   
   
   (c)	Coordinating the development, construction, and implementation of new
   facilities and related infrastructure, and the improvement of existing
   facilities in the District including issuing bonds, notes, or other
   obligations to finance the acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, or
   expansion of such facilities;
   
   (d)	Managing and maintaining facilities in the District which presently exist
   and which may hereafter be constructed by the Commission or the District;
   
   
   
   (e)	Promoting and marketing sports events in the District and participation in
   such sports events, including, but not limited to, boxing, wrestling, martial
   arts, track and field, gymnastics, basketball, and other matches, contests,
   exhibitions, and showings, professional as well as amateur, of any kind or
   nature; and
   
   (f)	Owning and operating professional sports franchises in the District.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY:  Unless otherwise noted, the authority for this chapter is the
   Omnibus Sports Consolidation Act of 1994, as amended, D.C. Law 10-152, D.C.
   Code §§ 2-4001 et seq. (1994 Repl. and 1999 Supp.).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 487 (January 24, 1997),
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 43 DCR
   3100- 3101 (June 14, 1996).
   
   
   
   	EDITOR’S NOTE: These regulations repealed the by-laws of the DC Armory
   Board and established the District of Columbia Sports Commission By-Laws.
