                                  DC REGULATIONS

DETERMINATION OF ASSESSED VALUE (§ 9-307)

307.1. In determining the assessed value of property the Deputy Chief
   Financial Officer shall take into account all available information which may
   have a bearing on the market value of the real property including, but not
   limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Government imposed restrictions;
   
   
   
   (b)	Sales information for similar types of real property;
   
   
   
   (c)	Mortgage or other financial considerations;
   
   
   
   (d)	Replacement costs, less accrued depreciation because of age, condition,
   and other factors;
   
   
   
   (e)	Income earning potential (if any);
   
   
   
   (f)	Zoning;
   
   
   
   (g)	The highest and best use to which the property can be put; and
   
   
   
   (h)	The present use and condition of the property and its location.

   307.2. In considering the factors set forth in § 307.1, the Deputy Chief
   Financial Officer may apply, when appropriate, one or more of the generally
   recognized approaches to valuation set forth in this section or any other
   method the Deputy Chief Financial Officer deems necessary to arrive at
   estimated market values.

   307.3. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer may utilize the comparable sales
   approach to valuation, which bases assessed value on the price or prices at
   which reasonably comparable properties have recently sold, in accordance with
   the following guidelines:
   
   
   
   (a)	Sales which represent arm&#8217;s length transactions between buyer and
   seller shall be used in analyzing market values. Sales which do not represent
   arm&#8217;s length transactions shall either be adjusted for differences or
   disregarded; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Sales comparisons should be made by property type within an assessment
   area; Provided, that if sufficient sales data for an assessment area is not
   available, sales data from other similar areas may be used.

   307.4. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer may utilize the replacement cost
   approach to valuation, which bases assessed value on the cost of replacing
   property with new property of similar utility at present price levels, in
   accordance with the following guidelines:
   
   
   
   (a)	The replacement cost of a property may be estimated by either of the
   following methods:
   
   
   
   (1)	Adjusting the property&#8217;s original cost for price level changes; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Applying current prices to the property&#8217;s labor and materials
   components and taking into account any other costs typically incurred in
   bringing the property to a finished state.
   
   
   
   (b)	Replacement cost shall be reduced by the amount of depreciation or
   estimated loss of value because of age, condition, or other factors.

   307.5. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer may utilize the income approach to
   valuation, which bases assessed value on the amount that investors would be
   willing to pay to receive the income that the property could be expected to
   yield, in accordance with the following guidelines:
   
   
   
   (a)	An indication of the value of an income producing property may be
   estimated by computing the present worth of a future income stream;
   
   
   
   (b)	The income stream shall be capitalized or converted into an indicated
   value; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The amount to be capitalized may be either the gross return or the net
   return.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 74-35 effective December 12, 1974, 21 DCR 1643
   (January 20, 1975), 16 DCRR §§101 108.
