                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIAL DEED TAX SALE (§ 9-319)

319.1 	At the discretion of the Chief Financial Officer, any or all real
   properties bid back from a real property tax sale pursuant to § 47-1346 of
   the D.C. Official Code may  be subject to sale pursuant to § 47-1353(a)(1) of
   the D.C. Official Code.  This sale shall not provide for any reduction of
   taxes owed.  The Office of Tax and Revenue (OTR), in its discretion, may
   exclude one or more bid back real properties from the portfolio of properties
   offered for sale.

   319.2. OTR may initially offer some or all of such bid back real properties as
   a single portfolio under a sealed bid process, and a list of such real
   properties by Square, Suffix and Lot, or Parcel and Lot, including the
   corresponding tax owed for which each was bid back at a real property tax
   sale, including accruals thereon to the date of award, shall be published on
   OTR’s Web site.

   319.3. All purchasers shall submit sealed bids within ten (10) business days
   from when the list is posted to OTR’s Web site.  The successful purchaser
   shall have bid to buy the greatest amount of taxes from the portfolio for
   which the properties were bid back from a real property tax sale, including
   accruals thereon to the date of award.  The bid shall include a list of the
   real properties by Square, Suffix and Lot, or Parcel and Lot, including the
   corresponding tax owed for which each was bid back at a real property tax
   sale, including accruals thereon to the date of award.

   319.4. Prior to or at the time of submission of his or her sealed bid, a
   bidder shall have registered with OTR on the form that OTR has devised, filed
   Form FR-500 (Combined Business Tax Registration Application), submitted a copy
   of Treas. Form W-9 (Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and
   Certification), and provided a deposit by certified check or cashier’s check
   payable to the D.C. Treasurer that is five percent (5%) of the bid amount, not
   to exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000).

   319.5. OTR shall evaluate the sealed bids within five (5) business days from
   the close of the sealed bid period.  Notice of an award shall be provided to
   the successful tax sale purchaser that his or her sealed bid is accepted for
   those properties included in the sealed bid. Notice is deemed to be properly
   served when mailed, by first class mail, to the purchaser’s address
   indicated on the registration form.

   319.6. The successful tax sale purchaser shall pay, by certified check or
   cashier’s check payable to the D.C. Treasurer, the balance of his or her bid
   within five (5) business days from when he or she is notified by OTR.  If such
   payment is not timely received, the award shall be void.  If the prior
   purchaser’s bid shall become void, then the next highest bidder shall be
   awarded his or her bid. In such an event, he or she shall pay, by certified
   check or cashier’s check payable to the D.C. Treasurer, the balance of his
   or her bid within five (5) business days from when he or she is notified by
   OTR.  The foregoing process shall continue until a purchaser pays the balance
   of his or her purchase.

   319.7. In the event that any purchaser’s bid shall be awarded and then
   become void due
   
   		to non-timely payment, that purchaser shall forfeit the amount of his or her
   
   		deposit that represents the damages suffered by the District due to such
   non-
   
   		performance. Damages shall be measured by the amount the defaulting
   
   		purchaser’s bid exceeds the amount of the fully paid bid of the successful
   
   		purchaser.

   319.8. Certificates of sale shall be delivered to the successful purchaser for
   those real properties purchased within the portfolio for the corresponding
   amount of taxes with accruals.

   319.9. Bid back real properties not sold to the successful tax sale purchaser
   may be
   
   		purchased on a one-by-one, first-come first-served basis by submitting
   offers to
   
   		the Chief of the Assessment Service Division within OTR.  A list of all
   properties
   
   		not sold in an awarded bid shall be posted to OTR’s Web site within ten
   (10)
   
   		business days after an award is successfully finalized under 9 DCMR § 319.7
   
   		hereof.

   319.10. When a certificate of sale is issued for real property sold or a
   certificate
   
   of sale is assigned pursuant to any provision in § 47-1353 of the D.C.
   Official Code, the four (4)-month period described in § 47-1377(b) of the
   D.C. Official Code shall be reduced by the number of days that shall have
   passed since the original or latest public tax sale to which the certificate
   of sale corresponds.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 11618 (December 3,
   2010); as amended by 	Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2839
   (April 1, 2011).
