                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRIVATIZED TAX SALE RESEARCH AND NOTIFICATION (§ 9-314)

314.1. This section shall apply to tax sales conducted under DC Code §
   47-1304.

   314.2. For the purposes of this section, the term &#8220;research&#8221; means
   research required to locate a person with a legally protected interest in the
   real property sold at tax sale.

   314.3. A tax sale purchaser may submit a request to the Deputy Chief Financial
   Officer stating that the tax sale purchaser shall conduct research concerning
   the property which he or she purchased. The request shall be submitted after
   the expiration of the statutory redemption period; provided that the tax sale
   purchaser shall not submit the request unless the tax sale purchaser shall
   have applied for a tax deed within the prescribed period of time; provided
   further that the application filing date shall precede or be simultaneous to
   the date of the request.

   314.4. The request must identify the Square, Suffix and Lot numbers, or the
   Parcel and Lot numbers, of the property for which the research shall be
   conducted. If the property is identified by a parcel number, the letters
   &#8220;PAR&#8221; must precede the parcel number. An approved title company to
   perform the research, including its address and telephone number, shall also
   be stated in the request.

   314.5. Once the request has been made, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer
   shall review its billing system for redemption payments.
   
   
   
   (a)	If the property has been redeemed, the request for research shall be
   denied.
   
   
   
   (b)	If the property has not been redeemed, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer
   shall notify the tax sale purchaser that he or she shall initiate the
   research.

   314.6. After the request has been approved by letter from the Deputy Chief
   Financial Officer, the research shall be performed by the approved title
   company. An approved title company is one that has:
   
   
   
   (a)	Been continuously performing title research in the District of Columbia
   for more than a 1-year period; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Title insurance in the District of Columbia for liability coverage of $
   100,000 or more.

   314.7. The research shall cover a period of at least 60 years, and shall
   identify all reasonably ascertainable parties with legally protected interests
   in the property. The title company shall inspect the public record at the
   Recorder of Deeds, the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, and any
   United States Bankruptcy Court situated in the District of Columbia
   metropolitan area, as necessary.

   314.8. The party in interest identified through the research shall be promptly
   notified by the agent of the tax sale purchaser of his or her right to redeem
   the property before the issuance of a tax deed to the tax sale purchaser.
   Notification to the party in interest shall be made in substantially the form
   as the notice in subsection 19 of this section. Notification to each
   identified party in interest shall be sent by certified mail (return receipt
   requested) and first class mail.

   314.9. The agent shall be either the title company or an attorney-at-law duly
   licensed to practice law in the District of Columbia.

   314.10. The notice shall provide to the party in interest a 30-day period to
   redeem the property.

   314.11. To redeem the property, any party in interest shall contact the Deputy
   Chief Financial Officer to receive a pay-off for the redemption payment. If
   the request has been approved, the redemption payment shall include the costs
   of the research fixed in the amount of $ 350.00.

   314.12. Notwithstanding subsection 11 of this section, no costs shall be
   reimbursed to the tax sale purchaser unless the tax sale purchaser provides
   the necessary documentation to the satisfaction of the Deputy Chief Financial
   Officer that the identified parties in interest have been notified. Necessary
   documentation shall comprise the following: 1) a statement from the title
   company reflecting the debt incurred; 2) copy of the research; 3) copies of
   the notices; 4) copies of all returned mail; 5) proof of certified mailings;
   6) and return receipts, if any.

   314.13. If the party in interest has not redeemed the property within the
   30-day period, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer may begin processing the tax
   deed application.

   314.14. The tax sale purchaser shall submit to the Deputy Chief Financial
   Officer the necessary documentation specified in subsection 12 of this section
   within 4 months from the date of the letter approving the lax sale
   purchaser&#8217;s request under subsection 6 of this section. If the necessary
   documentation is not so submitted with the prescribed period of time (or as
   extended by the Deputy Chief Financial Officer), the letter approving the tax
   sale purchaser&#8217;s request shall be deemed a letter for payment
   (hereinafter &#8220;bill for tax deed&#8221;) under DC Code 3 47-1304 wherein
   the prescribed period of time for payment expired.

   314.15. The tax sale purchaser shall receive a bill for tax deed. The bill for
   tax deed shall be paid in full within 30 days from the date of the bill for
   tax deed, or as extended by the Deputy Chief Financial Officer. If payment
   shall not be received by the prescribed date, the tax deed application shall
   be canceled, the tax sale purchaser shall forfeit the amount paid at tax sale,
   and the tax sale purchaser shall not receive the costs.

   314.16. The redeeming party shall pay the costs if the property is redeemed
   after the request was approved. If the property is redeemed before the request
   is approved, the tax sale purchaser shall not be entitled to the costs.

   314.17. Failure of the tax sale purchaser to comply in good faith with the
   provisions of this section may result in the return of the costs to the
   redeeming party that paid the costs, without recourse against the District.

   314.18. The tax sale purchaser that submits the request agrees to hold
   harmless and reimburse the District for damages incurred as a result of an
   error or omission in the research or notices.

   314.19. The notice for which reference is made in this section shall be in
   substantially the following form:
   
   
   
   [Address of Tax Sale Purchaser's Agent]
   
   
   
   [Date]
   
   
   
   [Name of Party in Interest]
   
   
   
   [Mailing Address of Party in Interest]
   
   
   
   Re: Square [Number], Suffix [Letter], Lot [Number] or Parcel [Number], Lot
   [Number] [Street Address, if any], Washington, DC
   
   
   
   Dear Sir or Madam:
   
   
   
   You have been identified as a party with a legally protected interest in the
   above-referenced property. This property was sold at the District of Columbia
   July [Year] tax sale for delinquent taxes.
   
   
   
   Pursuant to District law (DC Code §§ 47-1304 and 47-1306), the property
   owner and you had six months to redeem the property from the tax sale. The six
   months expired in January [Year]. The District&#8217;s records indicate that
   the payment of taxes in order to redeem the property was not made.
   
   
   
   YOU MAY STILL REDEEM THE PROPERTY BY PAYING ALL PRIOR OUTSTANDING TAX
   LIABILITIES, WHETHER OR NOT OWNED BY THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, IN ADDITION TO
   THE TAX LIABILITY FOR THE JULY [YEAR] TAX SALE. IF YOU CHOOSE NOT TO PAY THE
   ENTIRE AMOUNT, A TAX DEED MAY BE ISSUED TO THE TAX SALE PURCHASER AND YOU
   WOULD LOSE YOUR INTEREST IN THE PROPERTY.
   
   
   
   My client purchased the property at the July [Year] tax sale for $ [Amount].
   This amount, plus accrued interest, additional costs of $ 350, and any
   outstanding liabilities from prior years must be paid on or before [Insert
   Date 30 Days from Notice Date-Bolded, Increased Font and Underlined]. Payments
   are applied to the oldest liability first, so a partial payment will not be
   sufficient to redeem the property. Payments must be made at a First Union Bank
   with cash, money order, certified check or cashier&#8217;s check, and payable
   to the D.C. Treasurer.
   
   
   
   Pursuant to an agreement with the District, our office is responsible for
   notifying you of the information in this letter. This office represents the
   tax sale purchaser and cannot accept payments.
   
   
   
   To determine the total amount which must be paid, or if you have any questions
   or need additional information regarding this matter, please immediately
   contact the DC Office of Tax and Revenue at (202) 727-4829, and you may also
   wish to contact Breen Capital Services Corporation at (202) 543-6361 to
   determine whether prior years&#8217; liabilities have been sold to private
   parties and payoff information related thereto.
   
   
   
   Sincerely,
   
   
   
   [Name of Tax Sale Purchaser's Agent]
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 74-35 effective December 12, 1974, 21 DCR 1643
   (January 20, 1975), 16 DCRR § 117; as amended by Final Rulemaking published
   at 48 DCR 6445 (July 20, 2001).
