                                  DC REGULATIONS

THE INCOME-EXPENSE REPORTING FORM (§ 9-334)

334.1. In addition to the collection of the information set forth in § 333.4,
   the Deputy Chief Financial Officer may, in his or her discretion, by written
   notice to the affected taxpayer, require the taxpayer to provide records and
   documents that will assist in determining or substantiating the income and
   economic benefits of the income-producing property.

   334.2. In the absence of any extension of time granted by the Deputy Chief
   Financial Officer, all records and documents shall be filed with the Office
   within thirty (30) days from the time of the mailing of the written notice to
   the affected taxpayer, or as otherwise specified.

   334.3. Examples of records and documents include, but are not limited to, rent
   rolls, leases, subleases, graduated leases, interim financing documents, gross
   sales figures, gross gallonage figures, receipts and billings, and
   (certified/uncertified) financial reports.

   334.4. The income-expense form required to be completed by affected taxpayers
   shall contain a request for the following general information with respect to
   the income-producing property for the reporting period in question:
   
   
   
   (a)	Income;
   
   
   
   (b)	Expenses;
   
   
   
   (c)	Vacancy and credit loss;
   
   
   
   (d)	Any miscellaneous information deemed by the Office as necessary to inform
   it fully of the income and economic benefits of the property, including but
   not limited to the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Utility payments;
   
   
   
   (2)	Owner-occupancy;
   
   
   
   (3)	Number of units, number of units available for rent, number of units
   actually rented, length of time units remained vacant;
   
   
   
   (4)	Length of typical leases to tenants;
   
   
   
   (5)	Lease escalation clauses;
   
   
   
   (6)	Lease increases or decreases;
   
   
   
   (7)	Percentage leases;
   
   
   
   (8)	Rent collected (with or without parking and with or without miscellaneous
   income) during a given period of time;
   
   
   
   (9)	Real estate taxes paid by the owner;
   
   
   
   (10)	Real estate taxes paid by the lessee;
   
   
   
   (11)	Age of improvements to the property;
   
   
   
   (12)	Year major or minor renovation completed;
   
   
   
   (13)	Gross sales;
   
   
   
   (14)	Scheduled rental rates for any given span of time within the reporting
   period; and
   
   
   
   (15)	Actual Gross Income;
   
   
   
   (e)	A certification from the owner or agent that the information supplied on
   the income-expense form is complete and accurate; and
   
   
   
   (f)	A notice of penalties provided for by law for failure to return timely,
   return accurately, or return completely the income-expense form described in
   this section.

   334.5. In the case of income-producing properties classified as Class II or
   Class III under § 2(b) of D.C. Law 3-37 (D.C. Code § 47-813 (1981 Ed.)), a
   copy of the rent roll as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year
   certified by the property manager or owner as being true and correct to the
   best of his or her knowledge and belief shall, in addition to the information
   required by §334.4, be submitted with the form. The following types of
   properties shall not be subject to the requirement contained in this
   subsection:
   
   
   
   (a)	Hotels; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Apartment buildings.

   334.6. In the case of a hotel, a copy of a month-by-month operating statement
   for the immediately preceding calendar year certified by the hotel manager or
   owner as being true and correct to the best of his or her knowledge and belief
   shall be submitted with the form.

   334.7. For purposes of this section, the term &#8220;operating
   statement&#8221; means an accounting in writing of the gross income, annual
   expenses, and resulting Net Operating Income of an investment in real estate
   during a specified period.

   334.8. For the purposes of § 334.5, the term &#8220;rent rolls&#8221;
   includes, but is not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Tenant names;
   
   
   
   (b)	Floor and square foot area occupied;
   
   
   
   (c)	Commencement date of the lease;
   
   
   
   (d)	Expiration date of the lease, or length of the lease;
   
   
   
   (e)	Annual contract rent; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Pass through provisions (real estate taxes, and operating expenses,
   Consumer Price Index Adjustments, options to renew provisions and their terms,
   and unoccupied areas or vacant space by square foot).

   334.9. Income and expenses reported and attributable to corporations,
   partnerships, associations. or individuals that do not reflect the business
   income of the property shall not be considered sufficient for purposes of this
   section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 10919, 10921 (June 22, 1979), 16
   DCRR § 102; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 1352 (March 8,
   1985).
