                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIAL RULES FOR COOPERATIVE HOUSING ASSOCIATIONS (ยง 9-339)

339.1. The reduction in the real property tax liability of cooperative housing
   associations shall be provided for the benefit of members and shareholders of
   the association who meet the age and income requirements of ยง 5(a) of the
   Real Property Tax Rates for Tax Year 1987 Act of 1986 (herein the
   &#8220;Act&#8221;).

   339.2. In order for a shareholder or member of a cooperative housing
   association, who incurs a pro rata share of tax liability owed by the
   cooperative housing association, to receive the fifty percent (50%) tax
   reduction pursuant to the Act, he or she shall first pay the real property tax
   when due, then file a refund request on a return provided by the Mayor before
   the June 1st immediately preceding the end of the tax year for which the
   request for refund is being made.

   339.3. A member or shareholder of a cooperative housing association which owns
   residential real property classified as Class One Property shall be eligible
   for the property tax liability reduction provided under the Act if the
   following conditions are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The member or shareholder is sixty-five (65) years of age or older:
   
   
   
   (b)	The member or shareholder occupies a dwelling unit in the property owned
   by the cooperative housing association;
   
   
   
   (c)	The member or shareholder receives retirement income, social security
   benefits, or both as his or her primary means of support as such terms are
   defined in this chapter; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The member or shareholder submits an application for the reduction to the
   Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the Office of Tax and Revenue within the
   times required by this section.

   339.4. Application for a reduction in the real property tax liability of a
   cooperative housing association pursuant to ยง 5(a) of the Act shall be made
   on a form or forms approved by the Mayor which shall include, but not be
   limited to, a statement of the applicant member&#8217;s or shareholder&#8217;s
   proportionate share of real property tax liability as computed by the
   cooperative housing association and how that determination was made.

   339.5. The applications provided by the Mayor pursuant to ยง 339.4 shall be
   signed under oath by the applicant member or shareholder and the officer or
   agent of the cooperative housing association, and acknowledge the penalties
   provided by law for making false statements.

   339.6. The Mayor may require the officers or agents of each cooperative
   housing association to distribute the application forms required by this
   section to its shareholders or members and to collect the completed
   application forms from the members or shareholders for return to the Deputy
   Chief Financial Officer of the Office of Tax and Revenue, The officers or
   agents shall supply any other information as the Mayor may require.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 1837, 1841 (March 20, 1987).
