                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 9-399)

399.1. The definitions in § 9903.1 of Chapter 99 of this title shall also
   apply to Chapter 3.

   399.2. When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
   the meaning ascribed:
   
   
   
   Arms Length Transaction &#8211; a transaction freely arrived at in the open
   market, unaffected by abnormal pressure or by the absence of a normal
   competitive negotiation as might be true in the case of a transaction between
   related parties.
   
   
   
   Elderly Tenant &#8211; a tenant of a cooperative who is sixty-two (62) years
   of age or older at the time of conversion.
   
   
   
   Gifts from Non-governmental Sources &#8211; shall not include any amounts
   received by a recipient who is required to perform some act or render some
   service as a condition for the receipt of the gift.
   
   
   
   Intra-family transfers &#8211; transfers between and among a father, mother,
   husband, wife, children by blood or legally adopted children, or any other
   lineal descendant or lineal ancestor.
   
   
   
   Lifetime Lease &#8211; a lease in which a person who occupies a unit in a
   housing accommodation that is converted into a cooperative automatically
   acquires a lifetime tenancy.
   
   
   
   Limited Equity Cooperative &#8211; a cooperative housing association in which
   the governing documents limit the resale price of a stockholder or
   member&#8217;s stock or proprietary interest to the sum of his or her basis
   for such stock or proprietary interest plus his or her proportionate share of
   the amortization of any mortgage on the real property owned by the
   cooperative. The resale price may be subject to adjustment based on the
   Consumer Price Index or comparable index.
   
   
   
   Longterm Lease &#8211; a lease which meets the minimum length of time required
   under §204 of the Rental Housing Conversion and Sale Act of 1980, to qualify
   for reduction of conversion fees based on rentals to low income tenants.
   
   
   
   Low-income Tenant &#8211; a tenant of a cooperative unit with a combined
   annual income totaling less than the median income determined by the United
   States Department of Housing and Urban Development and adjusted yearly by
   historic trends of that median, and as may be further adjusted by an interim
   census of District of Columbia incomes by local or regional government
   agencies.
   
   
   
   Members of a Household &#8211; all individuals occupying a unit, whether or
   not they are related. For example, two (2) or more unrelated individuals
   sharing an apartment constitute the members of a household.
   
   
   
   Nonreal Property Assets &#8211; tangible and intangible personal property.
   
   
   
   Owner in Fee Simple &#8211; anyone who owns an estate which is absolute in
   respect to the rights of creditors and purchasers but subject to any future
   estates that may be limited thereon.
   
   
   
   Qualified Ownership Interest &#8211; an undivided interest for more than fifty
   (50) years in the entire dwelling unit and appurtenant land being acquired in
   the transaction to which the shared equity financing agreement relates.
   
   Shared Equity Financing Agreement &#8211; an agreement under which:
   
   
   
   (a)	Two (2) or more persons acquire qualified ownership interests in a
   dwelling unit; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The person (or persons) holding one (1) or more of such interests:
   
   
   
   (1)	Is entitled to occupy the dwelling unit for use as a principal residence;
   and
   
   
   
   (2)	Is required to pay rent to one (1) or more other persons holding qualified
   ownership interests in the dwelling unit.
   
   
   
   Timely File &#8211; postmarked by the due date, if mailed. If the postmark is
   illegible, the person filing the document may be required to submit a duly
   notarized affidavit indicating timely mailing.
   
   
   
   Type of Cooperative &#8211; the ownership of a cooperative whether it be stock
   or nonstock membership, and to whether there are restrictions on the profit
   realizable on resale of a cooperative interest, whether low-yield or limited
   yield.
   
   
   
   Unit Exposure &#8211; the position of a unit in relation to the outside of the
   building, i.e., corner, front, back, side or inside.
   
   
   
   Unit Mix &#8211; the types of dwelling units in a cooperative housing
   association, such as efficiency, one-bedroom, two-bedrooms. guest rooms, and
   commercial space.

   399.3. The terms and phrases used in §§360 through 365 shall have the
   meanings set forth in this section unless the text or context of a particular
   chapter, section, subsection, or paragraph provides otherwise.
   
   
   
   Construction in progress &#8211; the on-site building of an improvement or
   alteration of an improvement, whether it is a new improvement, an addition, or
   a renovation, including but not limited to, assembly and installation of
   components and, installation of equipment.
   
   
   
   Conversion &#8211; one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A change in the use of real property whether or not the change in use
   results in reclassification of the real property; or
   
   
   
   (b)	A change in the type of ownership of residential real property that
   results in a change of the residential use.
   
   
   
   The following are some examples of change in the use of real property which
   shall constitute a conversion.
   
   
   
   (a)	Change from use as an apartment building to use as a hotel.
   
   
   
   (b)	Change from use as a warehouse to use as a residential condominium.
   
   
   
   (c)	Change from use as a store to use as a single family dwelling.
   
   
   
   The following are some examples of a change in the type of ownership of
   residential property, resulting in a change in the use, which shall constitute
   a conversion.
   
   
   
   (a)	Change from use as a rental apartment building to use as a cooperative.
   
   
   
   (b)	Change from use as a rental apartment building to use as a condominium.
   For example, if real property is converted from apartment use to condominium
   use and the total value of the original real property (not each new
   condominium unit) increases by one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), the
   new value may be assessed on a supplemental basis.
   
   
   
   Improvement &#8211; a building or any other relatively permanent structure or
   development located on or attached to real property. It shall include any
   equipment that is used for commercial purposes and that is permanently
   attached to the real property so as to make the land otherwise unbuildable,
   e.g. storage tanks, railroad tracks and transmittal towers. The term
   &#8220;improvement&#8221; shall not include fences, residential storage sheds
   or other similar structures, or brick, or stone walls.
   
   
   
   Overall base structure &#8211; the supporting structure, including the
   exterior walls, interior finish, and lighting, heating, plumbing, and
   mechanical components. Interior finish shall not include tenant finish.
   
   
   
   Real property erroneously omitted from the assessment roll or tax list &#8211;
   all real property which escaped assessment and placement on the assessment
   roll or tax list and should have been assessed and on the assessment roll or
   tax list.
   
   
   
   Real property not listed on the previous assessment roll or tax list &#8211;
   all real property which was not listed on the previous assessment roll or tax
   list.
   
   
   
   Tenant finish &#8211; any alteration, enhancement, or renovation of an
   improvement made by a tenant or lessee, made according to the tenant&#8217;s
   or lessee&#8217;s specifications, or made for a tenant or lessee which
   subsequently becomes a part of the improvement, whether or not such
   alteration, enhancement, or renovation is changed for or by the tenant or
   lessee or a subsequent tenant or lessee, such as, one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A drop ceiling;
   
   
   
   (b)	A partition;
   
   
   
   (c)	Dry wall;
   
   
   
   (d)	Carpeting;
   
   
   
   (e)	A fixture;
   
   
   
   (f)	A kitchenette; or
   
   
   
   (g)	Wood paneling.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 74-35 effective December 12, 1974, 24 DCR 1643
   (January 20, 1975); Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 5940, 5944 (August
   18, 1989); by Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 5128, 5132 (August 3,
   1990); and by Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 8171, 8177 (November 19,
   1993).
