                                  DC REGULATIONS

INJURIES SUSTAINED DURING COMPETITION (ยง 19-2416)

2416.1. If an injury sustained during competition as a result of a legal
   maneuver is severe enough to terminate a bout, the injured contestant loses by
   technical knockout.

   2416.2. If an injury sustained during competition as a result of an
   intentional foul is severe enough to terminate a bout, the contestant causing
   the injury loses by disqualification.

   2416.3. If an injury sustained during competition as a result of an
   intentional foul and the bout is allowed to continue, the referee shall notify
   the scorekeeper to automatically deduct two points from the contestant who
   committed the foul.

   2416.4. If an injury sustained during competition as a result of an
   intentional foul causes the injured contestant to be unable to continue at a
   subsequent point in the contest, the injured contestant shall win by technical
   decision, if he or she is ahead on the scorecards. If the injured contestant
   is even or behind on the score cards at the time of stoppage, the outcome of
   the bout shall be declared a technical draw.

   2416.5. If a contestant injures himself or herself while attempting to foul
   his or her opponent, the referee shall not take any action in his or her
   favor, and the injury shall be treated in the same manner as an injury
   produced by a fair blow.

   2416.6. If an injury sustained during competition as a result of an accidental
   foul is severe enough for the referee to stop the bout immediately, the bout
   shall result in a no contest if stopped before two rounds have been completed
   in a three-round bout or if stopped before three rounds have been completed in
   a five-round bout.

   2416.7. If an injury sustained during competition as a result of an accidental
   foul is severe enough for the referee to stop the bout immediately, the bout
   shall result in a technical decision awarded to the contestant who is ahead on
   the score cards at the time the bout is stopped only when the bout is stopped
   after two rounds of a three- round bout, or three rounds of a five-round bout
   have been completed.

   2416.8. There will be no scoring of an incomplete round. However, if the
   referee penalizes either contestant, then the appropriate points shall be
   deducted when the scorekeeper calculates the final score.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 7227 (July 27, 2007).
