                                  DC REGULATIONS

MINIMUM COMPLETE EXAMINATION (ยง 17-6409)

6409.1. An optometrist shall maintain a record for each patient that
   accurately reflects the evaluation and treatment of the patient. These records
   shall be kept for seven (7) years after last seeing the patient or seven (7)
   years after a minor patient reaches eighteen (18) years of age.

   6409.2. In the absence of good clinical reasons to the contrary as documented
   in the patient record, an optometrist shall perform the following minimum
   examination on each patient, record his or her findings in the patient record,
   and maintain the patient record as required in ยง 6409.1 of this chapter:
   
   
   
   (a)	Complete case history, including medical conditions and medications;
   
   
   
   (b)	Visual acuity including:
   
   
   
   (1)	Monocular and binocular; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Aided or unaided;
   
   
   
   (c)	External examination, including pupil reactivity;
   
   
   
   (d)	Internal examination;
   
   
   
   (e)	Subjective refraction to test visual acuity at distance and near;
   
   
   
   (f)	Measurement of binocularity and ocular motility;
   
   
   
   (g)	Tonometry, on patients twelve and older or as needed in the professional
   opinion of the optometrist;
   
   
   
   (h)	Documentation of treatment, diagnosis; recommendations and directions to
   the patients, including prescriptions; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Documentation in the patient chart of the name of attending optometrist.

   6409.3. In addition to the requirements set forth in ยง 6409.1, an optometrist
   may perform the following tests as part of a minimum examination:
   
   
   
   (a)	Retinoscopy or equivalent; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Color vision screening.

   6409.4. In addition to the requirements set forth in ยง 6409.1, a contact lens
   examination, excluding a follow-up exam; shall include at a minimum the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Assessment of corneal curvature;
   
   
   
   (b)	Assessment of acuity through the contact lens;
   
   
   
   (c)	Directions for the care and handling of lenses and an explanation of the
   implications of contact lenses with regard to eye health and vision;
   
   
   
   (d)	Assessment of contact lens fit; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Documentation of contact lenses used in fitting procedures.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12043 (November 21, 2008).
