                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTACT LENS PRESCRIPTIONS (ยง 17-6417)

6417.1. A contact lens prescription shall contain sufficient information for
   the complete and accurate filling of a prescription, including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name of the patient;
   
   
   
   (b)	Date of the examination;
   
   
   
   (c)	Issue date and expiration date of the prescription;
   
   
   
   (d)	Name, license number, postal address, telephone number, facsimile
   telephone number, and original signature of the prescriber; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Brand of lens, power, base, curve, and diameter;

   6417.2. In the case of a private label contact lens, a contact lens
   prescription may also contain the name of manufacturer, trade name of private
   label brand, and, if applicable, trade name of equivalent brand name by the
   same manufacturer, but sold under the labels of other sellers.

   6417.3. A contact lens prescription may also include the diameter, axis, add
   power, cylinder, peripheral curve, optical zone, and center thickness and any
   additional information necessary in order that the prescription be accurately
   filled.

   6417.4. A contact lens prescription shall be given to the patient after the
   completion of the contact lens fitting whether or not it is requested by the
   patient, or at the time of the examination if the person is an established
   patient where no change in the prescription was made.

   6417.5. A prescriber shall, as directed by any person designated to act on
   behalf of the patient, provide or verify the contact lens prescription.

   6417.6. A contact lens prescription shall expire one (1) year after the issue
   date unless there is a medical reason that warrants a prescription for less
   than one (1) year. The medical reasons for issuing a prescription for less
   than one year shall be documented in the patient&#8217;s medical record.

   6417.7. The issue date on a contact lens prescription shall be the date of the
   examination.

   6417.8. A prescriber may require payment of fees for an eye examination,
   fitting, and evaluation before the release of a contact lens prescription, but
   only if the prescriber requires immediate payment in the case of an
   examination that reveals no requirement for ophthalmic goods. Presentation of
   proof of insurance coverage for that service shall be deemed to be a payment.

   6417.9. When specialty or custom-made contact lenses are necessary to complete
   the fitting process, the prescriber may charge patients an additional fee for
   such lenses as part of the cost of the fitting process and as such may
   condition the release of a contact lens prescription on payment of the fitting
   fee.

   6417.10. A prescriber shall not:
   
   
   
   (a)	Require purchase of contact lenses from the prescriber or from another
   person as a condition of providing a copy of the prescription;
   
   
   
   (b)	Require a payment in addition to, or as part of, the fee for an eye
   examination, fitting, and evaluation as a condition of providing a copy of a
   prescription or verification of a prescription; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Require the patient to sign a waiver or release as a condition of
   verifying or releasing a prescription.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking at 55 DCR 12043 (November 21, 2008).
