                                  DC REGULATIONS

BONDING OF LICENSEES (§ 17-210)

210.1. Each licensed master electrician or master electrician specialist
   designated by a contractor as that contractor&#8217;s authorized master
   electrician or master electrician specialist shall file a bond as provided in
   this section, except contractors who conduct their own business and designate
   only themselves as responsible for their work.

   210.2. Applicants for a business license shall file a bond in connection with
   the license, as provided in this section.

   210.3. Each required bond will be forwarded to the Mayor for approval, who in
   turn will notify the Director when each bond is accepted.

   210.4. Upon notice of the approval of the bond by the Mayor, the applicant
   shall register with the Director, stating the applicant&#8217;s full name,
   residence, and place of business. The applicant shall make any cash deposit
   with the District that is required by any regulation.

   210.5. The bond required under this section shall be conditioned upon the
   performance in accordance with law and regulations in force in the District of
   all licensed work undertaken by the person, firm, or corporation, and to keep
   the District of Columbia harmless from the consequences of any and all acts
   performed by that person, firm, or corporation in connection with the business
   during the period covered by the the bond.

   210.6. The Director shall furnish to anyone applying for it a certified copy
   of any bond filed under this section upon payment of a fee of five dollars
   ($5). The certified copy shall be prima facie evidence in any court that the
   bond was duly executed and delivered by the person, firm, or corporation whose
   name appears on the bond.

   210.7. The required bond shall be executed in accordance with the following
   form:
   
   
   
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS
   
   That we, _____ as principal and______ as sureties, are held and firmly bound
   unto the District of Columbia and to any person who may be aggrieved by a
   violation by the principal of any law or regulation in force in the District
   of Columbia relating to the electrical business in the full and just sum
   of_____ dollars ($_____) lawful money of the United States of America, for
   which payment, well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves, jointly and
   severally, our joint and several heirs, executors, administrators, successors,
   and assigns firmly by these presents.
   
   
   
   Signed with our hands and sealed with our seals this ______ day of ______,
   19_______.
   
   WHEREAS, The above bound ______ desires to engage in and practice the business
   of a master electrician, master electrician specialist, or electrical
   contracting in the District of Columbia, pursuant to the requirements of the
   Act of Congress approved December 20, 1944, 58 Stat. 819, and the electrical
   bonding and licensing regulations of the District of Columbia (Title 17 DCMR
   chapter 2) adopted by the Mayor of the District of Columbia in accordance with
   the laws of the District of Columbia relating to the electrical business.
   
   
   
   NOW, THEREFORE, the conditions of the above obligations are such that if
   ＿＿＿ shall well and truly observe and strictly and faithfully comply with
   the electrical bonding and licensing regulations of the District, including
   any amendments which may be hereafter made, and with all rules, regulations,
   and orders of the Mayor of the District, and all laws of the District relating
   to the electrical work placed in, upon, or leading to or from any building or
   structure in the District, and shall save and keep harmless the District of
   Columbia and any person who may be aggrieved by the violation of the laws or
   regulations in force in the District of Columbia applicable to the performance
   of work aforesaid by the principal hereto from the consequence of any and all
   acts done by ______ in the execution and practice of his or her business as
   electrical contractor aforesaid, then this obligation to be void; otherwise to
   remain in full force and effect for five (5) years from the date hereof.

   210.8. Persons engaged in any business required under this chapter to be
   bonded shall furnish and keep in force a bond running to the District of
   Columbia with corporate surety authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury to
   do business pursuant to §3 of the Act of August 13, 1894 (28 Stat. 279), as
   amended (6 U.S.C. §8), and by the D.C. Insurance Administration to do
   business in the District, in the amount specified in this chapter, conditioned
   upon the performance in accordance with laws and regulations in force in the
   District of all licensed work undertaken by that person, firm, or corporation,
   and to keep the District harmless from the consequences of any and all acts
   performed by that person, firm, or corporation in connection with the business
   during the period covered by the bond.

   210.9. The surety on any bond may terminate its liability under the bond by
   giving thirty (30) days written notice of termination, served either
   personally or by registered mail, to the principal and to the Director.

   210.10. Upon giving notice under §210.8, the surety shall be discharged from
   all liability under the bond for any act or omission of the principal
   occurring after the expiration of thirty (30) days from the date of service of
   the notice.

   210.11. Unless, on or before the expiration of the notice period, the
   principal files a new bond in like amount and conditioned as the original in
   substitution of the bond terminated under §210.9, the license of the
   principal to engage in the licensed business shall likewise terminate upon the
   expiration of the notice period.

   210.12. If a surety becomes insolvent or bankrupt, or ceases to be authorized
   by the Secretary of the Treasury to do business pursuant to §3 of the Act of
   August 13, 1894 (28 Stat. 279), as amended (6 U.S.C. §8), or by the D.C.
   Insurance Administration to do business in the District, the principal shall,
   within ten (10) days after notice of this event given by the Director, file a
   new bond in like amount and conditioned as the original. If the principal
   fails to do so, the license of the principal shall terminate.

   210.13. Any person aggrieved by the violation of any law or regulation in
   force in the District of Columbia relating to the licensed business shall
   have, in addition to a right of action against the person, firm, or
   corporation, a right to bring suit against the surety on the bond, either
   alone or jointly with the principal, and to recover in an amount not exceeding
   the penalty of the bond any damages sustained by reason of any act,
   transaction, or conduct of the principal which is in violation of law or
   regulation in force in the District of Columbia relating to that business;
   Provided, that nothing in this section shall be construed to impose upon the
   surety on any bond a greater liability than the total amount of the bond, or
   the amount remaining unextinguished by any prior recovery or recoveries, as
   the case may be.

   210.14. If a recovery is had on any bond, the principal shall restore the bond
   to its original amount.

   210.15. Upon making any payment on account of its bond, the surety shall
   immediately notify the Mayor.

   210.16. The amount of the bond required for each business, trade, or
   occupation under this section shall be the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Business, Trade, or Occupation
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Bond Required
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Electrical Contractor
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   $4,000
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Electrical Fixture Contractor
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   $1,000
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Master Electrician
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   $2,000
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Master Electrician Specialist
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   $1,000
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Special Contractor
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   $2,000

   210.17. The bond for master electricians or master electrician specialists
   shall be required of all master electricians or master electrician specialists
   designated by a contractor as the authorized master electrician or master
   electrician specialist.

   210.18. No bond shall be required of any applicant for a license who is
   employed only in the service of the government of the District of Columbia and
   whose name appears on the regular payroll of the District; Provided, that the
   person carries on no work or business as authorized by the license other than
   for the District.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 5J DCRR §§434, 435, 436, 437, 701, 702, 703, 710, 711, 712, 713 and
   723.
