                                  DC REGULATIONS

RENEWAL OF LICENSES (§ 17-211)

211.1. A renewal license may be issued before the date of expiration of the
   current license without reexamination if all of the following conditions are
   met:
   
   
   
   (a)	All permit fees have been paid;
   
   
   
   (b)	Work or services performed under the existing license have been done in a
   manner satisfactory to the Director;
   
   
   
   (c)	The application and any required bond is approved; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The license renewal fee is paid.

   211.2. The renewal license shall bear the date and be effective as of the
   expiration date of the old license.

   211.3. The application for renewal of a license, accompanied by any required
   bond, shall be filed with the Director in writing on the form provided, and
   the license renewal fee shall be paid before expiration of an existing
   license, except as otherwise provided in this section.

   211.4. Any person licensed under this chapter who fails to renew his or her
   license prior to the expiration date of the license will be permitted to renew
   the license without being required to take an examination in connection with
   the renewal, subject to the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the license was not revoked during the period for which it was
   issued, and that it was in full force and effect on the date of expiration;
   
   
   
   (b)	That the applicable fee and penalty is paid, as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	If application for renewal is made in writing within thirty (30) days from
   the date the license expired, accompanied by the required renewal fee, plus a
   ten dollar ($10) penalty;
   
   
   
   (2)	If application for renewal is made in writing between thirty (30) days and
   two (2) years from the date the license expired, accompanied by all required
   renewal fees, plus a seventy-five dollar ($75) penalty in the case of a master
   electrician, or a thirty-five dollar ($35) penalty in the case of a journeyman
   electrician.
   
   
   
   (c)	That the applicant for renewal has not engaged in the activity for which
   the license is required during the period he or she remained unlicensed after
   the expiration of the previous license, and submits to the examining board a
   notarized statement that he or she has not so engaged in such activity; and
   
   
   
   (d)	That the applicant for renewal of an expired license personally appears
   before the board to answer any questions relative to the application for
   renewal that the examining board may require.

   211.5. This section shall not be construed as authorizing or permitting the
   holder of a license issued under the authority of this chapter whose license
   has expired and has not been renewed to continue to operate as if he or she
   were the holder of a valid license.

   211.6. This section shall not be construed as waiving any provision in this
   chapter prohibiting any person from engaging in an activity for which a
   license is required without first having been issued a valid license to engage
   in that activity.

   211.7. If a license expires while the licensee is in the service of the Armed
   Forces of the United States or the Merchant Marine, the license may be renewed
   without further examination on payment of the renewal fee and upon the
   presentation of an application for renewal to the Director within six (6)
   months after discharge. Proof that the licensee was serving in the Armed
   Forces of the United States or the Merchant Marine on the date of expiration
   of the license shall accompany the application for renewal.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 5J DCRR §§451, 452, 453 and 457, as amended by §2 of District of
   Columbia Electrical Licensing and Bonding Regulation Amendment Act of 1979.
