                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSING REQUIREMENTS (§ 17-204)

204.1. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any public utility as defined in D.C. Code §43-203 (1981), which is under
   the jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the District of Columbia,
   when that utility is engaged in the performance of work for which the utility
   holds a franchise to engage in rendering a public utility service;
   
   
   
   (b)	Persons actually engaged in the performance of work under contract with
   the Federal government;
   
   
   
   (c)	Persons performing electrical work in connection with the operation of
   signals or the transmission of intelligence by telegraph or telephone
   companies in rendering their duly authorized service, or persons installing,
   manufacturing, or repairing equipment designed for use as an integral part of
   the communication system owned and operated by a telegraph or telephone
   company; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Persons installing exposed electrical wiring in suitable laboratories for
   experimental purposes only.

   204.2. No license shall be required of an individual to perform electrical
   work in his or her residence, if that residence is owned and occupied by him
   or her, and a permit for any electrical work to be done is obtained as
   required in the D.C. Electrical Code.

   204.3. A business license or bond will not be required of a person, firm, or
   corporation to perform work in buildings or on premises under his, her, or its
   ownership or occupancy, if that person, firm, or corporation regularly employs
   a licensed master electrician, master electrician specialist, or a licensed
   maintenance and repair electrician.

   204.4. No occupational license as an electrician shall be required of a person
   engaged in any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Repair or replacement of sockets, receptacles, or snap switches;
   
   
   
   (b)	General maintenance to repair portable electrical equipment or lighting
   fixtures; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Other minor repairs at existing outlets on the premises in which he or she
   is regularly employed.

   204.5. An individual who is employed only by the District of Columbia
   government, and whose name appears on the regular employment roll of the
   District, may be issued a special license without fee for a trade or
   occupation; Provided, that the following conditions shall apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The person shall not engage in work authorized by that license other than
   for the District of Columbia; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The limitation set forth in paragraph (a) shall be stated on the face of
   the license.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 5J DCRR §§401, 403, 405, 503, and 507.
