                                  DC REGULATIONS

BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS (§ 17-208)

208.1. A business license shall be required of each contractor whose work
   includes the removal and reinstallation of electrical applicances, apparatus,
   fixtures, equipment, and devices or any installation coming within the scope
   of the D.C. Electrical Code.

   208.2. A license shall be required to engage in the business of electrical
   contractor, special contractor, or electrical fixture contractor.

   208.3. No electrician, master electrician, or master electrician specialist
   shall engage in a business for which a license is required without first
   having obtained a business license as a contractor.

   208.4. A business licensee who has more than one (1) business location shall
   obtain a separate license and file a separate bond for each location.

   208.5. A business license may be issued to a contractor to engage in a
   specified business at a specified location, as required in this section,
   conditioned upon one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The licensee shall be licensed as a master electrician;
   
   
   
   (b)	The licensee shall have a master electrician as an officer or substantial
   stockholder in the firm or corporation; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The licensee shall have as an employee a master electrician.

   208.6. A limited business license to engage in work as an electrical
   contractor, special contractor, or an electrical fixture contractor may be
   issued to a contractor to engage in a limited business at a specified
   location, conditioned upon one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The licensee shall be licensed as a master electrician or a master
   electrician specialist;
   
   
   
   (b)	The licensee shall have a master electrician or a master electrician
   specialist as an officer or substantial stockholder in the firm or
   corporation; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The licensee shall have as an employee a master electrician or a master
   electrician specialist.

   208.7. The master electrician or master electrician specialist referred to in
   §208.6 must be qualified and licensed in the same specialty as the business
   licensed under that subsection.

   208.8. All work done under a license or limited license to engage in a
   business under this section shall be under the personal supervision of the
   master electrician or master electrician specialist designated under §208.5
   or §208.6, and the master electrician or master electrician specialist shall
   be responsible for all work performed.

   208.9. No master electrician or master electrician specialist shall be
   responsible for the work of more than one (1) contractor.

   208.10. The limitations on a business license shall not be greater than the
   limitations specified for the master electrician specialist responsible for
   work done.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 5J DCRR §§408, 424, 427, 443, 444, 446, 502, 505 and 822.
