                                  DC REGULATIONS

ELECTRICIAN&#8217;S LICENSE (ยง 17-218)

218.1. To be eligible to take the examination for an electrician&#8217;s
   license a person shall have done at least one (1) of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Learned the trade by having been engaged in that work or occupation for at
   least four (4) years comprising a minimum of four thousand (4,000) working
   hours as an apprentice electrician under the supervision of an electrician,
   master electrician, or master electrician specialist, or a contractor
   qualified under this chapter to receive a license as a master electrician or
   master electrician specialist;
   
   
   
   (b)	Received experience equivalent to that set forth in ยง218.1(a), which may
   include performance for at least four (4) years in the United States Armed
   Services or Merchant Marine of the type of work for which a license is sought;
   
   
   
   (c)	Satisfactorily attended, at a college or university, a course of
   electrical engineering for four (4) years: Provided, that the applicant must
   also show at least one (1) year of practical experience in electrical work; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Obtained a combination of the experience authorized in paragraphs (a), (b)
   and (c) of this subsection to establish eligibility to take the examination.

   218.2. Examination for a license as electrician shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A practical knowledge of the Electrical Code and regulations applicable to
   electrical installations, wiring methods, types and current carrying
   capacities of conductors, conductor and equipment protection, the standards of
   wiring systems, and diagrams; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A demonstration by the applicant to the examining board of an ability to
   comprehend and interpret electrical wiring plans and drawings; to maintain
   electrical installations; and to repair apparatus, equipment, fixtures, and
   appliances in accordance with the D.C. Electrical Code and established
   standards.

   218.3. Waiver of the examination described in ยง218.2 is authorized. The Board
   may accept, in lieu of examination, a certificate from a recognized trade
   organization certifying that the applicant has passed its required examination
   and is considered and classed by that organization as a journeyman
   electrician.

   218.4. A journeyman&#8217;s card showing membership in a recognized trade
   organization shall be considered as prima facie evidence that the applicant is
   qualified as a journeyman in that trade, and that evidence may be accepted by
   the examining board.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 5J DCRR ยง625.
