                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 17-299)

299.1. When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Apprentice electrician &#8211; an individual at least sixteen (16) years of
   age who assists in the performance of manual work under the direction of a
   master electrician, electrician, or master electrician specialist.
   
   
   
   Apprenticeship course of instruction &#8211; a course of instruction
   consisting only of manual work in the employ of an electrical contractor or
   employer exempt from licensure under ยง204.3.
   
   
   
   Bond &#8211; the bond and surety required by the Act of Congress (Public Law
   506-78th Congress, 58 Stat. 819) approved December 20, 1944, in an amount
   specified in this chapter for each specific business.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the D.C. Department of Consumer and
   Regulatory Affairs, or the Director&#8217;s agent, representative, or
   designee.
   
   
   
   Electrical contractor &#8211; a person engaged in the business of installing,
   repairing, or maintaining electric wiring, fixtures, signs, apparatus, and
   appliances designed for using or conducting electric current and coming within
   the scope of the Electrical Code of the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Electrical fixture contractor &#8211; a person engaged in the business of
   installing, repairing, or maintaining electric fixtures or signs at outlets
   previously provided.
   
   
   
   Electrician &#8211; an individual who has demonstrated that he or she has
   learned the trade and has received a license from the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Engaged in business &#8211; a person, firm, or corporation that holds itself
   out to the public to furnish or install, under verbal or written contract,
   labor or material designed to accomplish a specified result. A person so
   engaged shall be considered a contractor requiring a license under this
   chapter.
   
   
   
   License &#8211; the authority granted by the District for a person to engage
   in a specific business, trade, or occupation in the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Maintenance and repair electrician &#8211; an electrician employed by a
   person, firm, or corporation who keeps in repair electrical installations,
   apparatus, fixtures, and equipment; and who also may install wiring and
   apparatus that come within the purview of that permitted in Article 1147 of
   the D.C. Electrical Code, at the specific premise or premises for which the
   license is issued. Work done beyond the scope of Article 1147 shall only be
   done when a master electrician or a master electrician specialist is regularly
   employed.
   
   
   
   Master electrician &#8211; an electrician who is qualified to lay out, direct,
   and supervise the work of other electricians.
   
   
   
   Master electrician specialist &#8211; an electrician who is also qualified to
   lay out, direct, and supervise the work of other electricians in the limited
   field of work for which a license is issued and limited to branch circuit
   wiring.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; an individual, firm, partnership, or corporation.
   
   
   
   Special contractor &#8211; a person engaged in a limited branch of the
   business of installing, repairing, or maintaining a particular appliance,
   apparatus, device, fixture, or commodity covered by regulations. This business
   may be included under one or more business classifications provided in this
   chapter, such as gasoline pumps, musical instruments, oil burners, signs, and
   stokers.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 5J DCRR, Part 2.
