                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXAMINING BOARD PROCEDURES (§ 17-202)

202.1. An examining board may examine an applicant on the full scope of the
   license applied for, or the examination may be limited to one (1) or more
   specific subjects or branches of the occupation for which an application is
   made.

   202.2. Applicants presenting qualifications in special fields of the
   electrical trade shall be examined in those fields only. The license issued
   shall specify any limitations on the face of the license.

   202.3. The board shall report its findings, with any limitations to be
   specified in the granting of a license, to the Director.

   202.4. Action by the examining board is contingent on the presence of all
   members. For each member of the board, the Director shall appoint an alternate
   who shall satisfy the required standards of eligibility. A majority of the
   board members is sufficient to support a decision.

   202.5. The examination for an occupational license under this chapter shall
   include questions, diagrams, and other materials that are sufficient to
   thoroughly demonstrate to the examining board that the applicant has the
   experience and knowledge of regulations and construction methods considered
   necessary to engage in the class of occupation for which the applicant has
   filed a license application.

   202.6. An applicant who successfully passes a required examination shall be
   recommended to the Director by the examining board for a license to engage in
   that business or occupation.

   202.7. An applicant who fails to qualify for a license or who fails to report
   for an examination within twelve (12) months after filing a license
   application shall forfeit any fees paid in connection with the application
   unless subject to a refund as provided in §221. A new application shall be
   filed in accordance with this chapter before further consideration can be
   given to the applicant.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: 5J DCRR §§603, 604, 605, 611, 612, 613.
