                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL DATA (ยง 15-205)

205.1. Comparative financial data shall be provided as set forth in this
   section.

   205.2. A listing of the data required in this section shall not be required if
   it is available in a previously prepared report or statement. A reference to
   the appropriate document and page(s) shall be sufficient. The utility,
   however, shall provide copies of the relevant document page(s) upon request of
   a party.

   205.3. The following plant data shall be provided for the proposed test year
   on a pro forma basis and on an actual basis for the historical test year and
   for the five (5) calendar years preceding the historical test year:
   
   
   
   (a)	Plant in service;
   
   
   
   (b)	Plant under construction (separately identify short and long term if
   separate accounts are kept);
   
   
   
   (c)	Plant held for future use; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Accumulated depreciation and amortization.

   205.4. The amounts and percentages of capital as reflected in ยง201 shall be
   provided for the proposed test year on a pro forma basis and on an actual
   basis for the historical test year and for the five (5) calendar years
   preceding the historical test year.

   205.5. For the proposed test year, the historical test year and each of the
   five (5) calendar years preceding the historical test year, the utility shall
   provide a total company income statement in the same format as presented in
   its application for a rate increase.

   205.6. Consolidated data, if applicable, shall be provided in the format used
   in the utility&#8217;s annual report to shareholders. Other income and
   deductions shall be shown for the proposed test year, the historical test year
   and for each of the five (5) calendar years preceding the historical test
   year.

   205.7. The following interest and fixed charge coverage data shall be provided
   for the proposed test year, the historical test year, and for each of the five
   (5) calendar years preceding the historical test year:
   
   
   
   (a)	Pre-tax interest coverage;
   
   
   
   (b)	After-tax interest coverage;
   
   
   
   (c)	Pre-tax fixed charge coverage; and
   
   
   
   (d)	After-tax fixed charge coverage.

   205.8. Each of the items in ยง205.7 shall be computed using both the formula
   prescribed in indentures and that prescribed by the SEC. The data shall show
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The development of the coverage in detail including elements included in
   the income coverage amounts;
   
   
   
   (b)	The amounts of tax entering into the calculations;
   
   
   
   (c)	The amounts of interest;
   
   
   
   (d)	The preferred dividend requirements; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Other fixed charges.

   205.9. The data file under ยง205.7 shall show the embedded cost of debt and
   preferred stock computed on a basis consistent with the principal, interest
   and dividend amounts used in the coverage computations.

   205.10. Any ratings from rating agencies on preferred stock and bond ratings
   data shall be provided for the proposed test year, the historical test year
   and for each of the five (5) calendar years preceding the historical test
   year. Ratings are to be differentiated as to type of security if rated
   differently.
   
   
   
   (a)	[Repealed]
   
   
   
   (b)	[Repealed]

   205.11. The following common stock data shall be provided for the historical
   test year and for each of the five (5) calendar years preceding the historical
   test year except as noted:
   
   
   
   (a)	Shares outstanding-year-end;
   
   
   
   (b)	Shares outstanding-weighted, with description of weighing method;
   
   
   
   (c)	Net income for equity per share, on year-end basis and weighted basis;
   
   
   
   (d)	Dividends paid per share, and date of payment, dividends declared per
   share and date of declaration, and ex-dividend date;
   
   
   
   (e)	Market price per share, high and low for each quarter;
   
   
   
   (f)	Book value in total dollars on a year-end and on a weighted share basis
   separated as to the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Par or stated value;
   
   
   
   (2)	Capital surplus;
   
   
   
   (3)	Earned surplus;
   
   
   
   (4)	Other (describe); and
   
   
   
   (5)	A total of subparagraphs (1) through (4) of this paragraph;
   
   
   
   (g)	Growth in total book value per share year-end, and growth in book value
   per share year-end for retained earnings;
   
   
   
   (h)	For major issues, the following data:
   
   
   
   (1)	Number of shares issued;
   
   
   
   (2)	Stock issue method, whether by rights, direct offer or other method;
   
   
   
   (3)	Date of issue;
   
   
   
   (4)	Price received (net);
   
   
   
   (5)	Financing costs; and
   
   
   
   (6)	A narrative description of any stock issue methods other than public sales
   including provisions for purchase relating to qualifications, differentials
   from market prices or par values, and maximum and minimum amounts allowed to
   be subscribed;
   
   
   
   (i)	For minor or continuing issues such as Employee Stock Option Plan or
   Dividend Reinvestment Plan, the number of shares and amount received; and
   
   
   
   (j)	The date of any formal presentation to securities analysts or rating
   agencies within the last twelve (12) months. The utility shall make available
   for inspection copies of all formal prepared reports distributed to the public
   in connection with such presentations and a listing of documents distributed
   in support of such presentations for which privilege of confidentiality is
   asserted.

   205.12. Bell Atlantic &#8211; Washington, D.C., Inc., shall provide common
   stock data only for the parent company.

   205.13. The submission shall provide the case sinking fund requirement on debt
   and preferred stock by issue for the most recent historical twelve (12) month
   period and the following two (2) calendar years. The submission shall indicate
   whether these amounts are included in amounts outstanding as of the end of the
   previous years. The submission shall indicate by issue what sinking funds (or
   repayments) will be provided in advance of the required dates.

   205.14. Bell Atlantic &#8211; Washington, D.C., Inc., shall provide sinking
   fund data for its corporate entity and need not provide the data regarding its
   corporate parent or other Bell Atlantic affiliated companies.

   205.15. The filing shall provide the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The estimated dollar amounts of construction expenditures, including AFUDC
   or IDC, for the proposed test year and the historical test year;
   
   
   
   (b)	The amount of AFUDU or IDC included in the construction expenditure
   estimate; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The computation of AFUDC or IDC rate used in the proposed test year and
   the historical test year by components of the rate.

   205.16. The filing shall provide dollar amounts of the statement of cash flow
   as they are reported in the utility&#8217;s annual filing with the Commission
   for the most recently available quarter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 1155, 1162 (February 13, 1987);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 9090 (December 4, 1992); by
   Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 2340, 2342 (May 12, 1995); and by Final
   Rulemaking published at 43 DCR29, 30 (January 5, 1996), effective January 22,
   1996.
