                                  DC REGULATIONS

ACCOUNTING AND OPERATING INFORMATION (§ 15-206)

206.1. The accounting and operating information set forth in this section
   shall be provided for the historical test year and the proposed test year,
   except as specifically provided otherwise in each subsection.

   206.2. The filing shall include an income statement (showing net utility
   operating income) for the utility&#8217;s jurisdictional operations for the
   historical test year and the proposed test year.

   206.3. The filing shall include a General Ledger or an equivalent available
   for inspection as of the most recent date within the historical test year
   showing account number, account title, and monthly amounts. The data shall
   show the balance in each control account and all underlying subaccounts per
   book.

   206.4. The filing shall include the allocation factors for each classification
   of revenue, expense, and rate base and the method for determining the
   allocation factors.

   206.5. The filing shall include the following monthly balances (average
   balances for Bell Atlantic &#8211; Washington, D.C., Inc.) and a calculation
   of the thirteenth (13th) month average data or an average of the averages for
   both the historical test year and the proposed test year operations of the
   total company and an allocation of these balances to the District of Columbia
   jurisdiction and the method for determining the allocation factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	Plant in service;
   
   
   
   (b)	Plant purchased or sold;
   
   
   
   (c)	Plant held for future use;
   
   
   
   (d)	Construction-work-in-progress (included in rate base);
   
   
   
   (e)	Depreciation reserve;
   
   
   
   (f)	Plant acquisition adjustment;
   
   
   
   (g)	Amortization of plant acquisition adjustment;
   
   
   
   (h)	Materials and supplies;
   
   
   
   (i)	Unamortized Investment Tax Credit (as applicable) under the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Pre-Revenue Act of 1971;
   
   
   
   (2)	Revenue Act of 1971; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Revenue Acts after 1971;
   
   
   
   (j)	Accumulated deferred income taxes; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Customer deposits.

   206.6. The filing shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The journal entries relating to the purchase of utility plant acquired as
   an operating unit or system by purchase, merger, consolidation, liquidation or
   otherwise since the end of the test year adopted in the last rate case. (For
   Bell Atlantic &#8211; Washington, D.C., Inc., &#8220;utility plant&#8221;
   means communications plant acquired with traffic.); and
   
   
   
   (b)	A schedule showing the calculation of the acquisition adjustment at the
   date of purchase of each item of utility plant, the amortization period, and
   the unamortized balance at the end of the proposed test year and the
   historical test year.

   206.7. The filing shall include a schedule in comparative form showing the
   total utility operating expense account balances for the historical test year,
   the proposed test year and for each of the five (5) calendar years preceding
   the historical test year for each account or subaccount included in the
   applicant&#8217;s annual report or other similar published reports to the
   Commission. The appropriate pages from these reports may be supplied for
   calendar year comparative data.

   206.8. The filing shall include a schedule of total company salaries and wages
   for the historical test year and the proposed test year and for each of the
   five (5) calendar years preceding the historical test year in a format which
   provides a break-out by operational functions.

   206.9. The filing shall include the detailed workpapers showing and explaining
   calculations supporting all proposed ratemaking adjustments, with a
   comprehensive narrative explanation of each adjustment. There shall be a clear
   audit trail within the workpapers and to the filed testimony and exhibits.

   206.10. The filing shall include a list of all one-time or out-of-period
   accounting entries affecting the jurisdictional proposed test year and the
   historical test year net utility operating income by one percent (1%) or more,
   but not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000).

   206.11. The filing shall include tax data for the historical test year,
   including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A detailed calculation of federal and State income taxes included in the
   company&#8217;s proposed revenue requirement. If these taxes are derived from
   total company, income taxes, provide a detailed calculation of total company
   income taxes and the subsequent derivation of the Federal and State income
   taxes included in the proposed revenue requirement; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Analysis of the operating taxes for the total company, District of
   Columbia jurisdiction, and other regulated jurisdictions.

   206.12. The filing shall include the amount of contributions for political
   purposes (in cash or services) if any is incorporated in the utility’s cost
   of service.

   206.13. If lobbying expenses are included in the utility&#8217;s cost of
   service, the filing shall include a statement describing the applicant&#8217;s
   lobbying activities and a schedule showing the name of the individual,
   compensation attributable to lobbying, all utility-paid or reimbursed expenses
   or allowances, and the account charged for all personnel for whom a principal
   function is lobbying, whether on the local, state, or national level. The
   filing shall indicate the account number to which each expense is charged.

   206.14. The filing shall include the following information with regard to
   utility uncollectible accounts for the proposed test year, the historical test
   year, and the five (5) calendar years preceding the historical test year:
   
   
   
   (a)	Reserve account balance at the beginning of each year;
   
   
   
   (b)	Charges to reserve account (accounts charged off);
   
   
   
   (c)	Credits to reserve account;
   
   
   
   (d)	Current year provision;
   
   
   
   (e)	Reserve account balance at the end of each year; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Percent of provision to total revenue.

   206.15. The filing shall include a listing of non-utility property and
   non-utility property taxes and the account where amounts are recorded as of
   the end of the proposed test year and the historical test year.

   206.16. The filing shall include a list, in the detail specified in the
   utility&#8217;s annual report to the Commission, of the balances in the
   following accounts as of the end of the proposed test year and the historical
   test year:
   
   
   
   (a)	Preliminary Survey and Investigation Charges;
   
   
   
   (b)	Property or Plant Held for Future Use;
   
   
   
   (c)	Other Deferred Credits; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Other Deferred Debits.

   206.17. The filing shall include a schedule showing a comparison of the
   District of Columbia balance in the jurisdictional utility operating revenue
   accounts for each month of the proposed test year to the same month of the
   year preceding the proposed test year and for each month of historical test
   year to the same month of the year preceding the historical test year for each
   revenue account or subaccount in no less detail than the format of the
   utility&#8217;s annual report to the Commission. The filing shall also include
   an appropriate footnote to show the month the full change due to any general
   rate case was recorded in the accounts.

   206.18. The filing shall include a schedule showing a comparison of the
   balance in each total company utility operating expense account for each month
   of the proposed test year to the same month of the year preceding the proposed
   test year and for each month of the historical test year to the same month of
   the year preceding the historical test year for each account or subaccount in
   no less detail than the format for operation and maintenance expense
   (operating expenses for Bell Atlantic &#8211; Washington, D.C., Inc.) in the
   utility&#8217;s annual report to the Commission.

   206.19. The filing shall include a brief summary of significant and major
   pending refunds from suppliers or settlements from litigation. The response
   shall include an estimate of the amount of refund or settlement, or other
   explanation of significance.

   206.20. The filing shall include a description of changes made to the
   jurisdictional allocation methods since the last rate case. Bell Atlantic
   &#8211; Washington, D.C., Inc., shall provide a description of significant
   changes made to its separation methods, and make available for inspection its
   separation manual and supporting procedures.

   206.21. The filing shall include a copy of the current union contract(s).

   206.22. The filing shall provide the actual number of full time equivalent
   employees for the proposed test year (if historical) and the two (2) calendar
   years prior to the proposed test year. If a partially forecasted test year is
   proposed, the filing shall also include the budgeted number of full time
   equivalent employees for the proposed test year, and the two (2) calendar
   years prior to the proposed test year, derived from the last budget before the
   beginning of each particular year. Data provided shall be by functional areas
   where readily available, as well as by exempt and nonexempt, or management and
   nonmanagement, as may be appropriate.

   206.23. The filing shall include the percentage of labor charged directly or
   indirectly to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Capital accounts;
   
   
   
   (b)	Operation and maintenance accounts; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Other accounts from the most recent study available.

   206.24. The filing shall include a list of major projects included in CWIP for
   the proposed test year and the historical test year. For each item listed,
   provide the following data:
   
   
   
   (a)	Type of plant;
   
   
   
   (b)	Jurisdictional location;
   
   
   
   (c)	Year-end balance;
   
   
   
   (d)	Average balance;
   
   
   
   (e)	Estimated in-service date; and

   206.25. The filing shall include a summary of each item of revenue and expense
   entering into the calculation of cash working capital and make available for
   inspection a complete copy of the lead-lag study, if any.

   206.26. The filing shall include a statement on whether the utility has filed
   or plans to file insurance claims covering losses of over one hundred thousand
   dollars ($100,000) per event which were incurred during the historical test
   year. The statement shall list the cause of such claims and the cost incurred.
   The statement shall indicate whether the cost or loss was expensed,
   capitalized, or caused a reduction in reserve the amount of the insurance
   claim net of any deductible.

   206.27. The filing shall include an analysis of plant additions and
   retirements by plant account for the proposed test year and the historical
   test year.

   206.28. The filing shall include an analysis of changes in the accumulated
   reserve showing separately the annual accrual, retirements, gross salvage, and
   cost of removal for the proposed test year and the historical test year.

   206.29. Members of the transportation industry under the jurisdiction of the
   Commission shall be exempted from the filing requirements of §§200 through
   206.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 1155, 1165 (February 13, 1987);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 2340, 2343 (May 12, 1995);
   and by Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 29, 31 (January 5, 1996),
   effective January 22, 1996.
