                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 20-1599)

1599.1. The meanings ascribed to the definitions and abbreviations appearing
   in   20 DCMR § 199 shall apply to the terms and abbreviations in this
   chapter.  In addition the following terms and phrases used in this chapter
   shall have the meanings set forth in this section unless the text or context
   of a particular section, subsection or paragraph provides otherwise.
   
   
   
   Ambient Air – that portion of the atmosphere, external to buildings, to
   which the general public has access.
   
   
   
   Applicable implementation plan – as defined in § 302(q) of the Clean Air
   Act, the portion(s) of the implementation plan, or most recent revision
   thereof, which has been approved under § 110, or promulgated under § 110(c),
   and which implements the relevant requirements of the Clean Air Act.
   
   
   
   Control strategy implementation plan revision – the implementation plan
   which contains specific strategies for controlling the emissions of and
   reducing ambient levels of pollutants in order to satisfy the Clean Air Act
   requirements for demonstrations of reasonable further progress and attainment,
   including implementation plan revisions submitted to satisfy: § 172(c); §§
   182(b)(1), (c)(2)(A) and (B);  §§ 187(a)(7) and(g);  §§ 189(a)(1)(B),
   (b)(1)(A), and (d); and §§ 192(a) and (b), for nitrogen dioxide; and any
   other applicable provision of the Clean Air Act requiring a demonstration of
   reasonable further progress or attainment.
   
   
   
   DDOE or the Department – the District Department of the Environment.
   
   
   
   DDOT – the District Department of Transportation.
   
   
   
   EPA – the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   
   
   
   FHWA – the Federal Highway Administration within the United States
   Department of Transportation.
   
   
   
   FHWA/FTA project – any highway or transit project which is proposed to
   receive funding assistance and approval through the Federal Aid Highway
   program or the federal mass transit program, or requires FHWA or FTA approval
   for some aspect of the project, such as connection to an interstate highway or
   deviation from applicable design standards on the interstate system.
   
   
   
   FTA – the Federal Transit Administration within the United States Department
   of Transportation.
   
   
   
   Highway project – an undertaking to implement or modify a highway facility
   or highway related program.  Such an undertaking consists of all required
   phases necessary for implementation.  For analytical purposes, it must be
   defined sufficiently to:
   
   (a) 	Connect logical termini and be of sufficient length to address
   environmental matters on a broad scope;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have independent utility or significance, i.e., be usable and be a
   reasonable expenditure even if no additional transportation improvements in
   the area are made; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	Not restrict consideration of alternatives for other reasonably
   foreseeable transportation improvements.
   
   
   
   Maintenance area – any geographic region of the United States previously
   designated nonattainment under of the § 107 of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.
   § 7407, and subsequently redesignated to attainment subject to the
   requirement to develop a maintenance plan.
   
   
   
   Maintenance plan – a revision to the applicable implementation plan, meeting
   the requirements of the § 175A of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. § 7505a.
   
   
   
   Mayor – the Mayor of the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   MPO or Metropolitan Planning Organization – the organization designated as
   being responsible, together with the state, for conducting the continuing,
   cooperative, and comprehensive planning process under 23 U.S.C. § 134 and 49
   U.S.C. § 5303.  It is the forum for cooperative transportation
   decision-making.  The &#8220;National Capital Region Transportation Planning
   Board (TPB)” is the MPO for the Washington region.  The TPB is comprised of:
   Frederick, Montgomery, and Prince George&#8217;s counties in Maryland;
   Arlington, Fairfax, Frederick, Loudoun, and Prince William Counties, and the
   cities of Alexandria, Fairfax, Falls Church and Manassas in Virginia; and the
   District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Nonattainment area – any geographic region of the United States which has
   been designated as nonattainment under § 107 of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.
   § 7407, for any pollutant for which a national ambient air quality standard
   exists.
   
   
   
   PM2.5 – particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter less than or equal
   to a nominal 2.5 micrometers as measured by the applicable reference method or
   an equivalent method.
   
   
   
   Project – a highway project or transit project.
   
   
   
   Regionally significant project – a transportation project (other than an
   exempt project) that is on a facility which serves regional transportation
   needs (such as access to and from the area outside of the region, major
   activity centers in the region, major planned developments such as new retail
   malls, sports complexes, etc., or transportation terminals) and would normally
   be included in the modeling of a metropolitan area&#8217;s transportation
   network, including at a minimum, all principal arterial highways and all fixed
   guideway transit facilities that offer an alternative to regional highway
   travel.
   
   
   
   RPO or Regional Planning Organization – the organization certified by the
   state as being responsible for the preparation of control strategy
   implementation plan revisions for nonattainment areas under § 174 of the
   Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. § 7504.  The organization may include elected
   officials of local governments in the affected nonattainment area, and
   representatives of DDOE, DDOT, the MPO for the affected area, and other
   agencies and organizations that have responsibilities for developing,
   submitting or implementing any of the plan revisions.  It is the forum for
   cooperative air quality planning decision-making.  The RPO for the Washington
   region is the Metropolitan Washington Air Quality Committee (MWAQC).
   
   
   
   State – the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Statewide transportation improvement program – a staged, multiyear,
   intermodal program of transportation projects covering the State, which is
   consistent with the Statewide transportation plan and metropolitan
   transportation plans, and developed under 23 CFR §§ 450.300 &#8211; .338.
   
   
   
   Statewide transportation plan – the official intermodal Statewide
   transportation plan that is developed through the Statewide planning process
   for the State, under 23 CFR §§ 450.300 -.338.
   
   
   
   TCM or transportation control measure – any measure that is specifically
   identified and committed to in the state implementation plan that is either
   one of the types listed in § 108 of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. § 7408(f),
   or any other measure to reduce emissions or concentrations of air pollutants
   from transportation sources by reducing vehicle use or changing traffic flow
   or congestion conditions.  Vehicle technology-based, fuel-based, and
   maintenance-based measures which control the emissions from vehicles under
   fixed traffic conditions are not TCMs for the purposes of this chapter.
   
   
   
   TIP or transportation improvement program – a staged, multiyear, intermodal
   program of transportation projects covering a metropolitan planning area which
   is consistent with the metropolitan transportation plan, and developed
   pursuant to 23 CFR §§ 450.300 &#8211; .338.
   
   
   
   Transit – mass transportation by bus, rail, or other conveyance which
   provides general or special service to the public on a regular and continuing
   basis.  It does not include school buses or charter or sightseeing services.
   
   
   
   Transit project – an undertaking to implement or modify a transit facility
   or transit related program; purchase transit vehicles or equipment; or provide
   financial assistance for transit operations.  It does not include actions that
   are solely within the jurisdiction of local transit agencies, such as changes
   in routes, schedules, or fares.  It may consist of several phases.  For
   analytical purposes, it must be defined inclusively enough to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Connect logical termini and be of sufficient length to address
   environmental matters on a broad scope;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have independent utility or independent significance, i.e., be a
   reasonable expenditure even if no additional transportation improvements in
   the area are made; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not restrict consideration of alternatives for other reasonably foreseeable
   transportation improvements.
   
   
   
   Transportation plan – the official intermodal metropolitan transportation
   plan that is developed through the metropolitan planning process for the
   metropolitan planning area, developed pursuant to 23 CFR §§ 450.300 &#8211;
   .338.
   
   
   
   Transportation project – a highway project or a transit project.
   
   
   
   USDOT – the United States Department of Transportation.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 527 (January 8, 2010),
   incorporating text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 3132, 3142
   (April 24, 2009).
