                                  DC REGULATIONS

REINSTATEMENT TIMING AND METHOD OF REQUEST FOR REINSTATEMENT (ยง 29-1314)

1314.1. This section governs requests for reinstatement in the
   District&#8217;s Medicaid Program that are submitted by any one (1) of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A party who has been excluded from the program for fraud and/or abuse;
   
   
   
   (b)	A party suspended from participation for conviction of program-related
   crimes; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A party terminated from the program.

   1314.2. In order to establish the earliest date upon which the Director may
   consider a request for reinstatement of a party who has been excluded from
   participation in the program, the Director shall consider the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The number and nature of the program violations and other related
   offenses;
   
   
   
   (b)	The nature and extent of any adverse impact the violations have had on
   recipients;
   
   
   
   (c)	The amount of any damages;
   
   
   
   (d)	Whether there are any mitigating circumstances; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Any other facts bearing on the nature and seriousness of the program
   violations or related offenses.

   1314.3. A party may request reinstatement in the District&#8217;s Medicaid
   Program by filing a request in writing, with the Director, after the date
   specified in the notice of exclusion or suspension setting forth reasons why
   he or she should be reinstated.

   1314.4. The person shall submit or authorize the Director to obtain the
   following items:
   
   
   
   (a)	Statements from peer review bodies, probation officers, where appropriate,
   or professional associates as required by the Director, attesting to their
   belief and supported by facts, that the violations which led to the exclusion
   or conviction shall not be repeated; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Statements from private health insurers indicating whether there have been
   any questionable claims submitted during the period of exclusion or
   suspension.

   1314.5. The Director shall not reinstate a party that has been suspended from
   Medicare or suspended at the direction of HCFA or until HCFA notifies the
   Director that the party may be reinstated.

   1314.6. If HCFA notifies the Director that it has reinstated a party under
   Medicare, the Director shall automatically reinstate the party in the
   District&#8217;s Medicaid Program, effective on the date of reinstatement
   under Medicare, unless the Director has imposed an administrative sanction
   against the party under these rules.

   1314.7. When a provider agreement has been terminated in accordance with this
   chapter, the Director shall not accept a new agreement from that party unless
   the following conditions are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Director finds that the reason for termination of the previous
   agreement has been removed and there is reasonable assurance that it will not
   recur; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The Director finds that the party has fulfilled, or has made satisfactory
   arrangements to fulfill, all of the statutory and regulatory responsibilities
   of its previous agreement.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 31 DCR 3870 (August 3, 1984).
