                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 29-1399)

1399.1. For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the
   meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Abuse &#8211; the provider practices that are inconsistent with sound fiscal,
   business, or medical practices, and result in unnecessary costs to the program
   or in reimbursements for services that are not medically necessary or do not
   meet professionally recognized standards for health care. Abuse is
   characterized by, but not limited to, the presence of one (1) of the following
   conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	The repeated submission of claims by a provider from which required
   material data is missing or incorrect. Examples include, but are not limited
   to, incorrect or missing procedure or diagnosis codes, incorrect mathemetical
   entries, and incorrect third party liability information;
   
   
   
   (b)	The repeated submission of claims by a provider which overstate the level
   or amount of health care provided;
   
   
   
   (c)	The repeated submission of claims by a provider for health care which is
   not reimbursable under the program, or the repeated submission of duplicate
   claims;
   
   
   
   (d)	Failure of a provider to develop and maintain patient care records which
   document the nature, extent, and evidence of the medical necessity of health
   care provided;
   
   
   
   (e)	Failure of a provider to use generally accepted accounting principles, or
   other accounting methods which relate entries on the medical or health care
   records to corresponding entries on the billing invoice, unless otherwise
   indicated by federal or District law or rules; or
   
   
   
   (f)	The repeated submission of claims by a provider for health care which is
   not medically necessary, of which is of unacceptable quality.
   
   
   
   DHS &#8211; the Department of Human Services.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the Department of Human Services.
   
   
   
   Fraud &#8211; an intentional deception or misrepresentation made by a person
   with the knowledge that the deception could result in some unauthorized
   benefit to himself or herself or some other person. It includes any act that
   constitutes fraud under the laws of the District of Columbia, Federal or State
   law.
   
   
   
   HCFA &#8211; the Health Care Financing Administration of the U.S. Department
   of Health and Human Services.
   
   
   
   Provider &#8211; an individual or entity furnishing Medicaid services under a
   provider agreement with DHS.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 31 DCR 3870 (August 3, 1984).
