                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROCEDURES REGARDING DETERMINATION OF PROGRAM REIMBURSEMENT BASED UPON COST
REPORTS (ยง 29-1309)

1309.1. The procedures contained in this section through ยง1311 govern DHS
   determinations of Medicaid program reimbursement due to those Medicaid
   providers who are reimbursed based upon cost reports filed by the providers.

   1309.2. Upon receipt of a provider&#8217;s cost report, the Director shall,
   within a reasonable period of time, analyze the report and furnish the
   provider a written notice reflecting the determination of the amount of
   program reimbursement due to the provider. The notice shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Explain the Department&#8217;s determination of total program
   reimbursement due the provider for the reporting period covered by the cost
   report or amended report;
   
   
   
   (b)	Relate this determination to the provider&#8217;s claimed total program
   reimbursement due for the reporting period;
   
   
   
   (c)	Explain the amount of the program reimbursement;
   
   
   
   (d)	Explain the reason why, by appropriate reference to law, regulations, or
   program manual, the determination differs from the provider&#8217;s claim; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Inform the provider of his or her right to a hearing and that the hearing
   shall be requested within thirty (30) days after the date of notice.

   1309.3. The determination, as contained in a notice of amount of program
   reimbursement, shall constitute a basis for making the retroactive adjustments
   to any program payments made to the provider during the period to which the
   determination applies.

   1309.4. The determination shall also include the suspension of further
   payments, in whole or in part, to the provider in order to recover or to aid
   in the recovery of any overpayments identified in the determination to have
   been made to the provider, notwithstanding any request for a hearing on the
   determination the provider may make.

   1309.5. The suspension shall remain in effect as specified in ยง1308 of this
   chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 31 DCR 3870 (August 3, 1984).
