                                  DC REGULATIONS

ELECTRONIC SERVICE OF PLEADINGS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS (ยง 27-407)

407.1. Electronic and Facsimile Service. All parties or their representatives
   may make service upon other parties electronically through the E-File Service.
   Parties who subscribe to the E-File Service consent to receive electronic
   service of documents via the e-filing service. Parties, or their designated
   counsel, shall receive all documents e-filed and e-served upon them via access
   to the vendor&#8217;s system over the Internet or, if a party or party&#8217;s
   designee has not subscribed to the Services, via facsimile transmission. For
   the purposes of this Rule, service of documents via facsimile is hereby
   authorized in addition to those methods of service permitted in Rule 108.3.

   407.2. Effect of Electronic Service of Filings. The electronic service of a
   pleading or other document shall be considered as valid and effective service
   on all parties and shall have the same legal effect as an original paper
   document. Proof of service required by Rule 109 shall not be necessary for
   electronically filed documents.

   407.3. Service on Parties; Time to Respond or Act. E Service shall be deemed
   complete at the time a document has been received by the Vendor&#8217;s system
   as reflected by the authorized date and time appearing on the confirmation
   provided, however, for the purpose of computing time for any other party to
   respond, any document filed on a day or at a time when the Board is not open
   for business shall be deemed to have been filed at the time of next opening of
   the Board for business. If electronic service on a party does not occur
   because of (1) inaccessibility to the Vendor&#8217;s system; (2) an error in
   the Vendor&#8217;s transmission of notice to the party being served, (3) the
   Vendor&#8217;s failure to process the electronic filing for service, or (4)
   the party was erroneously excluded from the service list, the party to be
   served shall, absent extraordinary circumstances, be entitled to an order
   extending the date for any response or the period within which any right, duty
   or other act must be performed.
   
   
   
   In the event of service via facsimile, the Vendor&#8217;s system will record
   the date and time the fax transmission was completed as proof of service.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002); as amended
   by Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 4782 (May 20, 2005)
   [EXPIRED].
