                                  DC REGULATIONS

ACTION ON FUNDING APPLICATIONS (ยง 28-1110)

1110.1. When motions to recommend the funding of applications are made on a
   program area or individual application basis, a subcommittee member shall
   abstain from voting if the motion includes an application submitted by the
   agency or organization the member officially represents or for which he or she
   serves in a policy-making capacity.

   1110.2. Subcommittee members shall abstain from voting on motions to approve
   the funding of applications submitted by an agency or organization which the
   member officially represents or for which he or she serves in a policy-making
   capacity.

   1110.3. Each recommended rejection of an application shall be subject to
   approval by the JJAG and shall be clearly stated in writing and supported by a
   detailed explanation of the reasons for which the application was disapproved.

   1110.4. In those instances in which the JJAG votes to disapprove an
   application which the subcommittee recommended for approval, the JJAG shall
   articulate specific reasons for the rejection.

   1110.5. In instances where applications for grant support are filed with the
   Office of Criminal Justice Plans and Analysis after the established and
   publicly advertised closing date for applications, the Director of the Office
   of Criminal Justice Plans and Analysis shall formally reject the late
   applications, given notice of rejection to the subcommittee to which the
   application would normally have been referred and inform the JJAG at its next
   scheduled meeting.

   1110.6. Exceptions to the provisions of ยง 1110 5 shall be left to the
   discretion of the Director of the OCJPA.

   1110.7. The JJAG shall recommend a duration of grant support for an individual
   project or activity in keeping with the continued priority of that activity.
   In no instance shall the project&#8217;s support under the grant exceed three
   (3) years or thirty-six (36) months of funding from the date the project
   becomes operational.

   1110.8. The Director of the Office of Criminal Justice Plans and Analysis
   shall inform the JJAG in writing on a quarterly basis of all grants which have
   failed to commence project operations under the grant within sixty (60) days
   of the acceptance of the award. The reports shall include, where warranted,
   staff recommendations to terminate the project.

   1110.9. Any project which has not commenced operations within ninety (90) days
   of the date of the acceptance of the grant award and which has failed to
   provide substantial explanation shall be notified by the Director of the
   Office of Criminal Justice Plans and Analysis that the matter of terminating
   the project&#8217;s funding shall be before the JJAG at the next meeting.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 27 DCR 1121, 1130-31 (March 14, 1980).
