                                  DC REGULATIONS

FAMILY OBLIGATIONS TO AVOID TERMINATION (§ 14-5808)

5808.1. The Family shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Supply such certification, release, information or documentation as DCHA or
   HUD determines to be necessary, including submission of required evidence of
   citizenship or eligible alien status, and submissions required for an annual
   or interim recertification of Family income and composition;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Allow DCHA to inspect the dwelling unit at reasonable times and after
   reasonable notice;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Notify DCHA before vacating the dwelling unit;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Use the dwelling unit solely for residence by the Family, and as the
   Family’s principal place of residence; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Promptly give DCHA a copy of a Writ of Restitution received when an Owner
   seeks to remove the family from the unit within ten (10) days of the date of
   the notice.

   5808.2. The Family shall not:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Own or have any interest in the unit except for participants in the Home
   Ownership Assistance Program (HOAP) as further explained in chapter 92 of this
   title of the DCMR, other than in a cooperative;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Commit any fraud in connection with the HCVP;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Receive duplicative housing assistance under the HCVP while occupying, or
   receiving housing assistance for occupancy of, any other unit assisted under
   any Federal housing assistance program (including any Section 8 program); or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Sublease or assign the lease or transfer the unit.

   5808.4. DCHA shall terminate assistance if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A Family fails to submit required documentation within the required timeframe
   concerning any Family member’s citizenship or immigration status as
   enumerated in chapter 54 of this title of the DCMR;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A Family submits evidence of citizenship and eligible immigration status in a
   timely manner, but USCIS primary and secondary verification does not verify
   eligible immigration status of the Family;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A Family member, as determined by DCHA, has knowingly permitted another
   individual who is not eligible for assistance to reside (on a permanent basis)
   in the unit.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A Family is not receiving HAP assistance for more than twelve (12) months due
   to an increase in income; or

   5808.5. For § 5908.4(c), such termination shall be for a period of at least
   twenty-four (24) months. This does not apply to ineligible noncitizens already
   in the household where the Family’s assistance has been prorated.

   5808.6. A Family shall not receive HCVP assistance while residing in a unit
   owned by a parent, child, grandparent, grandchild, sister, or brother of any
   member of the Family, except as a reasonable accommodation that DCHA approves.

   5808.7. DCHA shall determine if a Family has committed serious or repeated
   violations of the lease based on available evidence, including but not limited
   to, a court-ordered eviction or a writ of possession.  Such violations may
   include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Nonpayment of rent;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Disturbance of neighbors;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Destruction of property;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Living or housekeeping habits that cause damage to the unit or premises; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Criminal activity.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7942, 7950 (June 29, 2012).
