                                  DC REGULATIONS

PARTICIPANTS RECEIVING NO HOUSING PAYMENT ASSISTANCE (§ 14-5811)

5811.1. Participants receiving no HAP assistance because their rental share
   equals the full rent may remain on the Program for twelve (12) months from the
   effective date they no longer receive assistance.

   5811.2. When the twelve (12) months has been reached, the Owner shall be
   notified of the termination of the HAP Contract, in accordance with the HAP
   Contract.

   5811.3. However, if the Owner is granted a rent increase during this period
   and the rent increase would cause DCHA to resume HAP payments, or if at
   biennial or interim recertification the participant has properly reported loss
   of income resulting in a HAP payment, the payments shall resume.

   5811.4. During the twelve (12) month period that a Family may remain in the
   Program unassisted, DCHA shall perform all of the duties and responsibilities
   normally required in the Program, including recertifications and inspections
   of the unit.  If the Family remains unassisted for twelve (12) months, without
   reporting a change that would trigger an increase in the HAP, the HAP contract
   shall terminate after twelve (12) months.

   5811.5. Upon reducing a Family’s HAP to zero (0), DCHA shall give the Family
   a written notice containing the following information:
   
   
   
   
   
   As a result of its income and Family composition, the Family is responsible
   for the full contract rent;
   
   
   
   
   
   The Family may remain in the program for twelve (12) months paying the full
   contract rent;
   
   
   
   
   
   If the Family’s income or Family composition changes, the Family should
   report that information to DCHA;
   
   
   
   
   
   If the Family remains at zero (0) assistance for twelve (12) months without
   reporting a change in income or Family composition, the Family will be
   terminated from the HCVP;
   
   
   
   
   
   The Family may move to another unit during the twelve (12) month period and if
   the Family would be entitled to assistance at the new unit (because of a
   higher rent, for example), DCHA will pay assistance at the new unit; and
   
   
   
   
   
   The Family’s right to challenge the determination in accordance with chapter
   89 of this title of the DCMR.

   5811.6. If the tenant wants to move to another unit during this period whose
   rent is not greater, DCHA may execute a new HAP Contract for the new unit at
   zero dollars ($0) assistance.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7942, 7952 (June 29, 2012).
