                                  DC REGULATIONS

TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION AND ASSISTANCE FOR CRIMINAL ACTIVITY (§ 14-5804)

5804.1     	DCHA shall terminate participation of a Family if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DCHA determines that any adult member of the household has ever been convicted
   of drug related criminal activity for manufacture or production of
   methamphetamine on the premises of federally assisted housing; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Any member of the household is subject to a lifetime registration
   requirement under a state or District of Columbia sex offender program.
   
   
   
   5804.2 	DCHA may terminate participation of a Family if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any adult Family member is currently engaged in any illegal use of a drug at
   or in the proximity of the assisted unit, that causes a nuisance or a
   disturbance at or in the proximity of the assisted unit or surrounding
   neighborhood or, threatens the health or safety of neighbors at or in the
   proximity of the assisted unit or surrounding neighborhood; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Any Family member has engaged in any felonious drug related criminal
   activity in the preceding two (2) years from the date of a notice of
   recommendation for termination for drug related criminal activity.

   5804.3. As used in this section only, “currently engaged” shall mean one
   or more offenses that occurred no more than nine months prior to the date a
   notice of recommendation for termination for drug related criminal activity is
   issued by DCHA.

   5804.4. DCHA has the burden of proving that a Family violated one or more of
   its obligations by a preponderance of the evidence.

   5804.5. The following types of evidence of drug related activity are relevant
   to show that a family member has violated the family obligation prohibiting
   such activity:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conviction or the arrest for any crime described in Title 48, Subtitle III,
   Chapter 9, Subchapter IV of the D.C. Official Code;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Police report listing drug related criminal activity by household member or at
   or near the assisted property;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Report by other law enforcement agencies or offices or DCHA investigative or
   compliance staff;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Credible evidence provided by persons with knowledge of the alleged activity;
   or
   
   
   
   (e)	Search warrant return for the property listing drugs, or drug
   paraphernalia.

   5804.6. DCHA may terminate participation of a Family if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any adult Family member has engaged in any violent criminal activity in the
   preceding two (2) years from the date of a notice of recommendation for
   termination for violent criminal activity.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any adult Family member has engaged in any violent criminal activity in the
   preceding two (2) years from the date of a notice of recommendation for
   termination for violent criminal activity.

   5804.7. The following types of evidence of violent criminal activity are
   relevant to show that a Family member has violated their family obligation
   prohibiting such activity:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conviction or arrest for any of the following criminal offenses listed in D.C.
   Official Code § 23-1331(4);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Police report listing violent criminal activity by a household member;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Report by other law enforcement agencies or offices or DCHA investigative or
   compliance staff;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Credible evidence provided by persons with knowledge of the alleged activity;
   or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Search warrant return for the property listing illegal weapon(s), illegal
   ammunition, or any legal weapon believed to be used in the act of violent
   criminal activity.

   5804.8. In instances where DCHA has discretion to terminate assistance for the
   activities as described in § 5804.2 and § 5804.6, DCHA will consider
   evidence of or testimony about relevant mitigating circumstances,
   rehabilitation, and disabilities as enumerated at 24 C.F.R. § 982.552(c)(2).

   5804.9. Prior to an Informal Hearing a Head of Household may present evidence
   of mitigating circumstances for consideration directly to the HCVP Director or
   an appointed designee prior to an Informal Hearing, but only if the person
   alleged to have committed the criminal activity is not the Head of Household.

   5804.10. After a Head of Household or Family member provides evidence of
   mitigating circumstances to DCHA, the HCVP Director or an appointed designee
   will notify the Family within ten (10) business days via first class mail
   whether the information provided was sufficient to rescind the recommendation
   for termination.

   5804.11. DCHA shall not consider evidence of mitigating circumstances prior to
   the Informal Hearing when the person alleged to have committed the criminal
   activity is the Head of Household.

   5804.12. A Family shall be notified of their rights under Chapter 89 of this
   title of the DCMR on the notice of termination.

   5804.13. DCHA shall not terminate assistance for criminal activity pursuant to
   the factors enumerated at § 4907.5 if the Head of Household or immediate
   family member is the victim of an intra-family offense.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7942, 7944 (June 29, 2012); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13167 (September 20, 2013).
