                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION PROCESS (ยง 20-3401)

3401.1. For the purposes of this program, applications shall be accepted one
   time per fiscal year. However, if additional funds become available during
   that same fiscal year, announcements shall be published in the D.C. Register
   to announce the deadline for accepting applications.

   3401.2. To solicit the broadest participation, applicants may only apply for
   one grant during the fiscal year. The period of the grant activity shall be no
   longer than one hundred eighty (180) days from the start of the grant award.

   3401.3. Any individual or organization within the District of Columbia may
   apply for financial support to carry out an innovative energy conservation
   demonstration activity or activities.

   3401.4. Applications shall be accompanied by a District of Columbia Energy
   Extension Service Energy Conservation Demonstration Awards Program Request
   Form.

   3401.5. Applicants shall submit the original and five (5) copies of the Grant
   Request Form and Application.

   3401.6. All applicants shall submit their request for grant funding to the
   D.C. Energy Extension Service of the D.C. Office of Energy.

   3401.7. The D.C. Office of Energy shall give public notice through the D.C.
   Register, local media, and other sources of the availability of the program,
   and of the deadlines for submitting applications.

   3401.8. The EES Energy Conservation Demonstration Awards Program Request Form
   shall state the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name, address, and telephone number of the contact person; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The amount of the grant funds requested.

   3401.9. The following information shall be included in the application:
   
   
   
   (a)	Preface: Information about the applicant including, but not limited to,
   background or structure, personnel, tax status, history of related activities
   and associations with other groups, and overall capabilities;
   
   
   
   (b)	One page summary of project: Including the need for project, purpose and
   objectives, community benefits, relationship to the District EES Program and
   any other relevant community programs or groups;
   
   
   
   (c)	Technical description of the project: Including the &#8220;what, when,
   where, how, and why&#8221; of the project, services to be offered or products
   to be produced, progress chart, what, if any, activities will continue beyond
   the period of the grant, and, if related to other work, a brief description of
   the relationship;
   
   
   
   (d)	Qualifications of key personnel;
   
   
   
   (e)	Cash or in-kind services which the applicant will provide toward the
   proposed activity; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Description of applicant&#8217;s budgetary needs, including (as relevant
   to the activities pertinent to the grant application) the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Salaries (specify full or part-time, duration of employment, and salary of
   each individual);
   
   
   
   (2)	Related salary cost (fringe benefits, etc.);
   
   
   
   (3)	Postage;
   
   
   
   (4)	Consultant or contractual service;
   
   
   
   (5)	Supplies;
   
   
   
   (6)	Duplicating and printing;
   
   
   
   (7)	Rent;
   
   
   
   (8)	Travel;
   
   
   
   (9)	Telephone; and
   
   
   
   (10)	Applicant&#8217;s contribution.

   3401.10. Within three (3) weeks after the announced application deadline, the
   Program Manager shall send the applicant a letter acknowledging receipt of the
   application and noting any deficiencies in the application or additional
   information required.

   3401.11. If the application is complete, the letter shall give the estimated
   date by which a final decision will be made.

   3401.12. Questions concerning the status of an application shall be directed
   to the Program Manager.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 7991 (December 14. 1990)
