                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMPLOYEE&#8217;S NOTICE OF INJURY (ยง 7-206)

206.1. Under ยง14 of the Act [ยง36-313, D.C. Code, 1981 ed.], written Notice
   of Injury shall be given to the Office and the employer by an employee or
   beneficiary within thirty (30) days of the injury or within thirty (30) days
   of awareness of the relationship between the employment and the injury.

   206.2. Notice of Injury shall be made on a form prescribed by the Office and
   shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the employer and of the employee;
   
   
   
   (b)	The date, approximate time, and place of the injury;
   
   
   
   (c)	The nature of injury;
   
   
   
   (d)	The cause of the injury;
   
   
   
   (e)	The name of any known witnesses and other relevant circumstances;
   
   
   
   (f)	The signature of the employee, the authorized representative, or the
   beneficiary;
   
   
   
   (g)	Whether medical treatment has been obtained and from whom; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Any other information the Office deems necessary.

   206.3. Notice of Injury may be either hand delivered or mailed to the Office
   and to the employer.

   206.4. Notice to an employer who is a partnership shall be sufficient if given
   to any general partner or agent of the partnership.

   206.5. Notice to an employer who is a corporation shall be sufficient if given
   to any agent or officer of the corporation authorized to receive legal process
   or to any person in charge of the business of the corporation in the place
   where the injury occurred.

   206.6. The failure of an employee or beneficiary to give timely Notice of
   Injury shall not bar a claim for compensation if the following occurs:
   
   
   
   (a)	The employer, an agent in charge of the business in the place where the
   injury occurred, or the carrier knew of the injury and its relationship to the
   employment and the Office determines that no prejudice has resulted from the
   failure; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The Office excuses the failure upon determining that a satisfactory reason
   exists why timely Notice of Injury was not given; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Objection to the failure is not raised at any time during the first
   hearing on the claim- as defined in ยง299 of this chapter.

   206.7. In determining when an employee or beneficiary became aware or should
   have been aware of the relationship between the injury and the employment, the
   Office shall consider all the facts and circumstances of the individual case.

   206.8. In determining when an employer or carrier had knowledge of an injury
   and its relationship to the employment, the Office shall consider, among other
   factors, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The place where the injury occurred;
   
   
   
   (b)	The time the injury occurred;
   
   
   
   (c)	Actual notification by the employee to an official of the company or the
   employee&#8217;s designee;
   
   
   
   (d)	Whether the employer provided medical treatment; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The time when the injury was reported.

   206.9. In determining whether the employer or carrier has been prejudiced by
   the failure of the employee or beneficiary to give Notice of Injury, the
   Office shall consider, among other factors, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The length of time between the injury and the filing of the claim;
   
   
   
   (b)	Whether the employer was able to investigate the injury or illness at the
   time it occurred;
   
   
   
   (c)	Whether the failure to give notice has adversely affected the
   employer&#8217;s ability to prepare its defense; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Whether the delay prevented the employer from providing medical treatment.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 3213 (June 3, 1994).
