                                  DC REGULATIONS

INFORMAL PROCEDURES (ยง 7-219)

219.1. Informal procedures may be utilized by the Office to resolve in a
   manner acceptable to all interested parties any matter in dispute regarding a
   claim.

   219.2. Informal procedures may include informal conferences or informal
   conferences with mediation services; provided, that participation by
   interested parties in these conferences shall be voluntary.

   219.3. Prior to the informal conference, the parties shall file with the
   Office the following documents:
   
   
   
   (a)	The notice of injury and claim;
   
   
   
   (b)	The employer&#8217;s report of injury;
   
   
   
   (c)	Evidence of insurance coverage, if any;
   
   
   
   (d)	The notice of controversion, if any.
   
   
   
   (e)	medical records.

   219.4. Failure to file the required documents, pursuant to ยง219.3, prior to
   convening the informal conference shall not prevent the interested parties
   from going forward with the conference.

   219.5. A matter may be resolved through written communication, copies of which
   shall be maintained in the official record.

   219.6. Informal proceedings may begin at anytime after notice of claim is
   served on the interested parties.

   219.7. The Office shall, in the context of open discussion, utilize maximum
   efforts through conference, persuasion, and conciliation to eliminate any
   disputes and to reach a resolution acceptable to all interested parties.

   219.8. Each controverted claim or medical benefits shall be investigated by
   the Office. The Office shall attempt to resolve disputes with respect to a
   claim in a manner designed to protect the rights of the interested parties at
   the earliest practicable date.

   219.9. Informal conferences may be conducted by telephone.

   219.10. To the extent practicable, informal conferences shall be held with all
   interested parties present or represented.

   219.11. The Office, when investigating claims by telephone or with only one
   (1) interested party present, shall ensure that a complete written report is
   made of all matters discussed.

   219.12. Informal conferences may be scheduled by the Office upon not less than
   ten (10) working days notice to all interested parties, unless the parties
   agree to meet at an earlier date.

   219.13. Notice of informal conference may be given by telephone, but shall be
   confirmed in writing on a form prescribed by the Office which sets forth the
   date, time and place of the conference, and the matters to be discussed. For
   good cause shown, conferences may be rescheduled.

   219.14. No stenographic record shall be made of any informal procedure and no
   witnesses shall be called.

   219.15. Informal conferences shall be held at the Office unless otherwise
   designated.

   219.16. Following an informal conference at which an agreement is reached, the
   Office shall, within fourteen (14) working days after the conclusion of the
   conference, prepare a Final Order which embodies the agreement.

   219.17. If a claim is resolved by telephone discussion or by exchange of
   written correspondence, the parties shall be notified in the same manner and
   the Office shall prepare a Final Order setting forth the terms agreed upon.

   219.18. If at the close of an informal conference, the parties have not
   reached an agreement on all of the disputed issues, the Office shall evaluate
   all the available information and prepare a Memorandum of Informal Conference
   containing recommendations.

   219.19. Copies of the Memorandum of Informal Conference shall be sent by
   certified mail to the parties and their representatives.

   219.20. The parties shall have fourteen (14) working days after receipt of the
   Memorandum of Informal Conference within which to signify in writing whether
   they agree or disagree with the terms of the memorandum.

   219.21. If the parties agree with the Memorandum of Informal Conference, the
   parties shall prepare, and submit to the Office within fourteen (14) working
   days, a joint statement signed by the parties indicating their acceptance of
   the terms of the memorandum and their intent to be bound by the terms. The
   Office shall issue a Final Order consistent with the provisions of ยง219.16 of
   this chapter.

   219.22. If an application for formal hearing is not filed in accordance with
   ยง220 of the chapter within thirty-four (34) working days after the issuance
   of the Memorandum of Informal Conference, said Memorandum shall become final.
   Thereafter, the Office shall issue a Final Order which shall be sent by
   certified mail to the parties and their representatives, and the Hearings and
   Adjudication Section. An aggrieved party may request a review by the Director,
   DOES.

   219.23. All informal procedures shall terminate when an application for formal
   hearing is filed.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 3213 (June 3, 1994);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 6454 (August 11, 2000).
