                                  DC REGULATIONS

SELF-INSURANCE (§ 7-217)

217.1. An employer who desires to be a self-insurer may apply for
   authorization in accordance with this section and in the manner prescribed by
   the Office.

   217.2. Under §35(a)(2) of the Act [§36-334(a)(2), D.C. Code, 1981 ed.], any
   employer who desires to be a self-insurer shall furnish satisfactory proof to
   the Office that he or she has met the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Secured or has sufficient financial resources to meet all obligations in
   regard to its potential liability under the Act;
   
   
   
   (b)	Obtained adequate excess or catastrophic loss insurance or has otherwise
   made adequate financial arrangements for the losses:
   
   
   
   (c)	Made adequate arrangements to provide promptly to its employees all
   necessary compensation and medical care required by the Act;
   
   
   
   (d)	Made a deposit of security (negotiable securities, surety bond or other
   financial bond) in the amount and form prescribed by the Office; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Agreed to carry out all requirements of the Act and this chapter.

   217.3. An employer who applies for the status of self-insurer shall secure the
   insurance coverage required by the Act until such time as authorization is
   issued by the Office.

   217.4. Application for self-insurance shall be made in a manner prescribed by
   the Office and shall contain at least the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement of the amount of the employer&#8217;s payroll for the
   preceding twelve (12) month period;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement of the average number of employees engaged in employment
   within the purview of the Act, or similar provisions of prior law, in the
   preceding twelve (12) month period;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement of the number and kinds of injuries to employees resulting in
   disability of more than three (3) days&#8217; duration, or in death, during
   each of the preceding three (3) years;
   
   
   
   (d)	An itemized statement of the assets and liabilities of the employer;
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement describing the facilities maintained or the arrangements made
   for the medical and hospital care of injured employees;
   
   
   
   (f)	A statement describing the provisions and maximum amount of any excess or
   catastrophic insurance;
   
   
   
   (g)	Signature of the applicant over the typewritten name, and if the applicant
   is not an individual, signature of a duly authorized officer indicating
   official title;
   
   
   
   (h)	Sworn oath of the applicant and, where appropriate, the corporate seal of
   the applicant; and
   
   
   
   (i)	A statement pertaining to the proposed processing of claims. If claims are
   proposed to be processed &#8220;in house&#8221;, a statement shall be
   submitted showing the qualifications of those individuals who will process
   claims. If a self-insured service organization is to be used, a profile of the
   organization shall be submitted showing its experience in the administration
   of claims in general and specifically under workers&#8217; compensation laws,
   both state and federal.

   217.5. The application shall be filed with the Office at the time and place
   and in the manner prescribed by the Office.

   217.6. In addition to the application requirements set forth in §217.4, the
   Office may require an applicant for self-insurance status to submit further
   financial or other information as it deems necessary.

   217.7. In evaluating the ability of an employer to be a self-insurer,
   including the amount and form of any security to be deposited with the Office,
   the Office shall consider the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The financial standing of the employer;
   
   
   
   (b)	The nature of the work in which the employer is engaged;
   
   
   
   (c)	The degree of hazard to which employees are exposed;
   
   
   
   (d)	The amount of the employer&#8217;s payroll;
   
   
   
   (e)	The provisions for excess insurance against catastrophic loss; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Any other data submitted by the applicant or required by the Office.

   217.8. Annually and at any other time as the Office may require or prescribe,
   each self-insurer shall submit each of the following reports:
   
   
   
   (a)	A sworn itemized statement of the self-insurer&#8217;s assets and
   liabilities, or a balance sheet;
   
   
   
   (b)	A sworn statement showing by classifications the payroll of employees of
   the self-insurer who are engaged in employment within the purview of the Act
   or similar provisions of prior law; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A sworn statement covering the preceding twelve (12) month period, listing
   all death and injury cases which have occurred during the period, together
   with a report of the status of all outstanding claims.

   217.9. Whenever it is deemed necesary, the Office may, after reasonable
   notice, inspect or examine the books of account, records, and other papers of
   a self-insurer at the self-insurer&#8217;s place of business for the purpose
   of verifying any financial statement submitted to the Office by the
   self-insurer or verifying any other information furnished to the Office in any
   report required by the Act or this chapter.
   
   
   
   217.10.	Each self-insurer shall permit the Office or its duly authorized
   representative to make an inspection or examination as the Office shall
   require. In lieu of this requirement the Office may, in its discretion, accept
   the report of a certified public accountant.

   217.11. Applicants for self-insurance, as a condition precedent to receiving
   authorization to be a self-insurer, shall give security for the payment of
   compensation and the discharge of all other obligations under the Act in the
   amount and form prescribed by the Office.

   217.12. The amount of security required by the Office shall be the amount that
   the Office deems reasonable, necessary, and sufficient to secure performance
   by the applicant of all obligations imposed upon an employer by the Act.
   Additions to the amount of security may be required at any time in the
   discretion of the Office.

   217.13. Only surety companies approved by the Treasurer of the District of
   Columbia may act as sureties on any security for obligations under the Act.

   217.14. Applications for self-insurance shall, as a condition precedent to
   receiving authorization to be a self-insurer, execute and file an undertaking
   in a manner prescribed by the Office.

   217.15. Applicants shall agree in the undertaking to do the following;
   
   
   
   (a)	To pay when due, as required by the Act, all compensation payable on
   account of injury or death of any of its employees injured within the purview
   of the Act;
   
   
   
   (b)	To furnish where necessary, medical, surgical, hospital and other
   attendance, treatment, care, and vocational rehabilitation as required by the
   Act;
   
   
   
   (c)	To give or deposit with the Office security in the amount and form
   required by the Office;
   
   
   
   (d)	To authorize the Office to proceed against, sell or otherwise collect from
   the security if the employer fails to meet its obligations under the Act;
   
   
   
   (e)	To timely pay the appropriate share of the cost of administration of the
   Act; and
   
   
   
   (f)	To maintain excess insurance coverage or other catastrophic loss security
   as the Office shall prescribe.

   217.16. No initial authorization as a self-insurer shall be granted for a
   period in excess of twelve (12) months and the expiration date thereof shall
   fall on the thirtieth (30th) day of September.

   217.17. A self-insurer who has made continuing deposit of security as
   prescribed by the Office and who has filed the appropriate financial and other
   reports as required by the Office, shall be deemed to have reapplied for
   self-insurance for the following twelve (12) month period if the employer does
   not inform the Office to the contrary in writing on or before August 1,
   preceding the September 30th expiration date.

   217.18. The Office may, for good cause shown, suspend or revoke the
   authorization of any self-insurer.

   217.19. The occurrence of any one of the following events shall constitute
   good cause to suspend or revoke the authorization of a self-insurer:
   
   
   
   (a)	Failure by a self-insurer to comply with any provision or requirement of
   the Act or of this chapter or with any lawful order or communication of the
   Office;
   
   
   
   (b)	Failure or insolvency of the surety on the indemnity bond; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Impairment of financial responsibility.

   217.20. A self-insurer who desires to terminate the status of a self-insurer
   and obtain a refund of the deposited security shall file with the Office a
   sworn statement indicating the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	All outstanding liabilities for compensation;
   
   
   
   (b)	All pending claims for compensation;
   
   
   
   (c)	All accidents that have occurred during the period up to three (3) years
   prior to the date of the statement; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Evidence of insurance coverage as required by the Act and §214 and §215
   of this chapter.

   217.21. The Office shall return the deposited security (or the balance
   thereof) to the employer only after all claims and liabilities have been
   adjudicated and paid or the Office determines that adequate arrangements for
   the payment have been made.
