                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRE-HEARING PROCEDURES (ยง 7-222)

222.1. The Hearing and Adjudication Section shall furnish interested parties
   or their representatives with a copy of a Joint Pre-Hearing Statement Form.
   Unless otherwise ordered by the Hearing Examiner or Attorney, the party
   applying for the formal hearing or their representative shall, after
   consultation with the opposing party, prepare the Joint Pre-Hearing Statement
   for the signature of each party. Failure by any interested party to
   participate in the timely completion and submission of the Joint Pre-Hearing
   Statement shall result in the imposition of an appropriate sanction against
   the non-participating party by the Hearing Examiner or Attorney. The Joint
   Pre-Hearing Statement shall be filed with the Hearing and Adjudication Section
   as required by the Scheduling Order.

   222.2. The Joint Pre-Hearing Statement shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of each party&#8217;s representative;
   
   
   
   (b)	The basis for jurisdiction, or if contested, the jurisdictional questions;
   
   
   
   (c)	A brief statement of the facts as claimed by the interested parties;
   
   
   
   (d)	A listing of all uncontested or stipulated material facts;
   
   
   
   (e)	A listing of the contested issues of fact and law;
   
   
   
   (f)	A statement that discovery is complete;
   
   
   
   (g)	A listing of each party&#8217;s exhibits, and witnesses, excepting
   impeachment witnesses;
   
   
   
   (h)	A statement informing the parties of the availability of, and need to
   request an interpreter for a party or witness who cannot understand or
   communicate in the spoken English language or because of a hearing impediment
   cannot readily understand or communicate in the spoken English language;
   
   
   
   (i)	A realistic estimate of the time the formal hearing will require;
   
   
   
   (j)	The statement, &#8220;This Joint Pre-Hearing Statement has been formulated
   after conference between counsel or the representatives of the respective
   parties and reasonable opportunity has been afforded the participants for
   corrections, or additions, prior to signing&#8221;; and
   
   
   
   (k)	The statement, &#8220;The possibility of settlement of this case has been
   actively considered.

   222.3. The Hearing and Adjudication Section shall furnish a Scheduling Order
   to all interested parties, or their representatives, within ten (10) working
   days of its receipt of the application for formal hearing. The Scheduling
   Order shall contain the date for the submission to Hearing and Adjudication
   Section of the Joint Pre-Hearing Statement; the date for the close of the
   discovery period if discovery is not complete prior to the application for
   formal hearing; the date for the exchange of all documentary exhibits between
   the parties or their representatives, and the submission to the Hearing and
   Adjudication Section of exhibits; and, the date by which Motions to Amend the
   Joint Pre-Hearing Statement must be served upon the opposing party and filed
   with the Hearing and Adjudication Section.

   222.4. If the party applying for a formal hearing fails to perform pursuant to
   the Scheduling Order, without good cause, the application for formal hearing
   shall be dismissed. If the party who has not requested the formal hearing
   fails to perform pursuant to the Scheduling Order, the formal hearing may be
   scheduled for ex parte proof. A request by either party to set aside the
   dismissal of an application for formal hearing or to vacate an Order setting a
   formal hearing on ex parte proof may be granted where the Hearing Examiner has
   found the party&#8217;s failure to comport with the Scheduling Order was for
   good cause.

   222.5. Requests for continuances of dates set in the Scheduling Order shall
   not be granted except for good cause shown. Where good cause has been shown
   and a previously scheduled date has been extended, this will extend by the
   identical time period the ninety (90) working day period for convening the
   formal hearing as contained in subsection 220.2 of this chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 3213 (June 3, 1994);
   as amended by D.C.ACT 12-571 at 46 DCR 891 (February 5, 1999).
