                                  DC REGULATIONS

VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION (§ 7-229)

229.1. Under §8(e) of the Act [§36-307(a), D.C. Code, 1981 ed.], vocational
   rehabilitation services shall be provided by employers to injured workers who
   require such services.

   229.2. Employers shall file vocational rehabilitation plans with the Associate
   Director for the Office of Workers&#8217; Compensation.

   229.3. The Associate Director shall monitor vocational rehabilitation services
   to determine adequacy and, on his or her own motion, may cause an
   investigation to be made pursuant to §229.4.

   229.4. An injured worker may make an application to the Associate Director for
   either the provision of vocational rehabilitation services or a change of
   service provider.

   229.5. The Associate Director, may on the Associate Director&#8217;s own
   motion or upon application conduct a rehabilitation conference.

   229.6. The application shall contain allegations and supporting information
   regarding the employer&#8217;s failure or refusal to provide adequate and
   sufficient vocational rehabilitation services. Supporting information may
   include evidence that the plan is not reasonably designed to return the
   employee to wages as close as possible to the wages that the employee earned
   at the time of injury.

   229.7. The Associate Director shall serve on the employer, notice of the
   investigation pursuant to this section and a copy of any allegations and
   supporting information of the employer&#8217;s failure or refusal to provide
   adequate or sufficient rehabilitation services.

   229.8. The Associate Director may conduct a rehabilitation conference for the
   purpose of determining the adequacy, feasibility and sufficiency of the
   vocational rehabilitation services.

   229.9. A rehabilitation conference may be held concurrently with the
   institution of vocational rehabilitation and during vocational rehabilitation.
   A rehabilitation conference may be held prior to cessation of vocational
   rehabilitation.

   229.10. A rehabilitation conference shall be held with the injured employee,
   the employer, the vocational rehabilitation provider and/or their respective
   representatives and the Office as may be deemed necessary. Failure to attend
   will result in an order based on the evidence at the rehabilitation
   conference.

   229.11. A rehabilitation conference may be scheduled upon not less than
   fourteen (14) days notice to the parties, unless the parties agree to an
   earlier date.

   229.12. Notice of the rehabilitation conference may be given by telephone, but
   shall be confirmed in writing setting forth the date, time and place of the
   conference and the matters to be discussed.

   229.13. Within twenty (20) days of receipt of the notice and allegations, the
   employer shall file with the Associate Director and the injured employee, a
   response accompanied by the exhibits and written argument as the employer
   considers relevant to a proper resolution of the matter.

   229.14. Within twenty (20) working days after the employer responds, the
   Associate Director shall determine by Final Order whether the employer shall
   provide vocational rehabilitation services and, if so, whether any such
   services already being provided are adequate and sufficient.

   229.15. The Associate Director may order the provision of these services or a
   change in the provider of these services. The Associate Director, by agreement
   of all parties, may extend the time to issue such an order.

   229.16. The Associate Director may, by written order, dismiss a frivolous or
   unsupported application of an employee after an investigation has been
   performed.

   229.17. The Order of the Associate Director, issued pursuant to this section
   shall become final unless a written request for a formal hearing is made to
   the Chief, Hearings and Adjudication Section within twenty (20) working days
   of the date of issuance. The order shall be served on all interested parties.

   229.18. Upon receipt of a request for a formal hearing, a hearing shall be
   conducted pursuant to §21(c) of the Act [§36-320(c), D.C. Code 1981 ed.].

   229.19. Upon request by the Chief, Hearings and Adjudication Section, the
   order and complete file of the Associate Director shall be forwarded and made
   a part of the record.

   229.20. The Associate Director shall, in his or her investigation of the
   adequacy and sufficiency of the vocational rehabilitation services provided to
   the injured worker, consider all questions concerning the provision of
   vocational rehabilitation services including, but not limited to, the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The fact and degree of disability;
   
   
   
   (b)	The existence of a substantial handicap to employment; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The likelihood that vocational rehabilitation services will return the
   individual to employment commensurate with his or her abilities.
   
   
   
   (d)	The reasonable likelihood that the vocational rehabilitation services will
   return the individual to employment with wages as close as possible or greater
   than wages that the employee earned at the time of injury.

   229.21. When, in the opinion of the Associate Director, medical reports are
   insufficient to determine the suitability of vocational rehabilitation
   services, the Associate Director may order an independent medical evaluation
   and charge the employer for the associated costs or bill if he is a
   self-insured or to the insurance company which is carrying the risk or, in
   appropriate cases, the Special Fund pursuant to §231.4 of this chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 3213 (June 3, 1994).
