                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVING, FILING AND POSTING (§ 7-228)

228.1. Service by the Office or the Hearings and Adjudication Section of a
   document or notice shall be accomplished by the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Hand deliver the document to each interested party and secure the
   signature of the recipient; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Mail the document by certified or registered mail, return receipt
   requested, to the last known record address of each party, and
   
   
   
   (c)	Retain a copy for the official record.

   228.2. Whenever an interested party desires to file a document with the Office
   or the Hearings and Adjudication Section, the party shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Hand deliver the document to the Office or the Hearings and Adjudication
   Section and ensure that its receipt is acknowledged by the Office or the
   Hearings and Adjudication Section.
   
   
   
   (b)	Mail the document to the Office or the Hearings and Adjudication Section
   by registered mail, receipt requested.
   
   
   
   (c)	Mail a copy to all interested parties by registered or certified mail.

   228.3. If the Office, the Hearings and Adjudication Section or an interested
   party retains evidence that a document has been served or filed as set forth
   in §§228.1 and 228.2, the receipt of the document shall be presumed;
   provided, that the presumption of receipt may be rebutted by evidence to the
   contrary.

   228.4. Whenever the Act or this chapter provides a time period during which an
   action is to be taken, unless otherwise expressly provided, the time period
   shall run from the actual receipt of a document.

   228.5. Three (3) working days from mailing shall be presumed to be the normal
   time for registered or certified mail to actually be received.

   228.6. All notices and documents required to be posted by employers shall be
   posted at or near the place of employment of jobsite. Posting shall be in a
   place where it can be seen and read by employees.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 3213 (June 3, 1994).
