                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT OF FORMAL HEARINGS (ยง 7-223)

223.1. Unless excused prior to the hearing, all formal hearings shall be
   attended by the interested parties and their representatives and any other
   persons as the Hearing or Attorney Examiner deems necessary and proper.

   223.2. If the party requesting the hearing fails to appear, the application
   for Hearing shall be dismissed unless the other party objects and shows good
   cause why the application should not be dismissed. If the party who has not
   requested the hearing fails to appear, the case shall be decided on the
   evidence received at the hearing. Good cause for failure to appear shall be
   established for any reopening of the case.

   223.3. The Hearing or Attorney Examiner shall inquire fully into matters at
   issue and shall receive in evidence the testimony of witnesses and any
   documents which are relevant and material to such matters. Under no
   circumstance shall the Memorandum of Informal Conference be admitted as
   evidence.

   223.4. If the Hearing or Attorney Examiner believes that there is relevant and
   material evidence available which has not been presented at the formal
   hearing, the Hearing or Attorney Examiner may order the parties to acquire and
   submit the evidence. The Hearing or Attorney Examiner may also continue the
   hearing to allow the parties to develop the evidence or, at any time prior to
   the filing of the compensation order, reopen for receipt of the evidence.

   223.5. The order in which evidence and allegations shall be presented and the
   procedures at the hearing generally, except as this chapter otherwise
   expressly provides, shall be in the discretion of the Hearing or Attorney
   Examiner and of the nature as to afford the parties a reasonable opportunity
   for a fair hearing.

   223.6. All formal hearings shall be open to the public and shall be
   stenographically recorded for transcription.

   223.7. Nothing in ยง223.6 of this chapter shall preclude the interested
   parties from ordering, at their own expense, a transcript of the formal
   hearing.

   223.8. The Hearing or Attorney Examiner shall issue a compensation order based
   upon substantial evidence in the record within twenty (20) working days after
   the hearing is concluded in accordance with ยง21(c) of the Act [ยง36-320(c),
   D.C. Code, 1981 ed.]

   223.9. The Hearings and Adjudication Section shall maintain a formal hearing
   record which shall include all pleadings sent to the Hearings and Adjudication
   Section concerning the formal hearing and the claim, the testimony and the
   exhibits admitted into evidence during a formal hearing before a Hearing or
   Attorney Examiner, and the transcript of the stenographic record of the formal
   hearing.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 3213 (June 3, 1994).
