                                  DC REGULATIONS

UTILIZATION REVIEW (ยง 7-232)

232.1. Any medical care or service furnished or scheduled to be furnished
   under the Act shall be subject to utilization review. The review may be
   performed before, during or after the medical care or service is provided.

   232.2. A utilization review organization or individual used pursuant to the
   Act shall be certified by the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission.

   232.3. The employee, employer or the Office may initiate the review, accepting
   as a given the diagnosis of injury, where it appears that the necessity,
   character or sufficiency of medical services is improper or clarification is
   needed on medical service that is scheduled to be provided.

   232.4. The report of the review shall specify the medical records considered
   and shall set forth rational medical evidence to support each finding. The
   report shall be authenticated or attested to by the utilization review
   individual or by an officer of the utilization review organization. The report
   shall be provided to the employee, employer and the Office.

   232.5. A utilization review report which conforms to the provisions of ยง232.4
   of this chapter may be admissible in all proceedings with respect to any claim
   to determine whether medical care or service was, is, or may be necessary and
   appropriate to the diagnosis of the claimant&#8217;s injury or disability.

   232.6. If the medical care provider disagrees with the opinion of the
   utilization review organization or individual, the medical care provider may
   submit a written request to the utilization review organization or individual
   for reconsideration of the opinion. The request shall contain reasonable
   medical justification for the request and shall be made within sixty (60)
   calendar days from actual receipt of the utilization review report.

   232.7. If a dispute arises between the medical care provider, employee, or
   employer on the issue of necessity, character, or sufficiency of the medical
   care or service or fees charged by the medical care provider, the dispute
   shall be resolved by the Director upon application for a hearing. Any party
   adversely affected by the Director&#8217;s Decision shall appeal to the D.C.
   Court of Appeals. Copies of all reports shall be furnished to all interested
   parties.

   232.8. The cost of a utilization review shall be paid by the employer, if the
   employee seeks the review and is the prevailing party.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 3213 (June 3, 1994).
