                                  DC REGULATIONS

SAFE WORKPLACE PROGRAM (ยง 7-234)

234.1. Where there is no duty to bargain collectively, an employer who elects
   to implement a Safe Workplace Program for the purpose of obtaining a
   workers&#8217;
   
   
   
   (a)	the name and address of the employer and the employer&#8217;s federal tax
   identification number;
   
   
   
   (b)	the employer&#8217;s insurer;
   
   
   
   (c)	written documentation demonstrating that the employer&#8217;s Safe
   Workplace Program includes at least the following requirements for
   certification, including:
   
   
   
   (1)	a safety committee made up of equal numbers of management representatives
   and employee representatives who are elected by their peers and who serve in a
   paid status;
   
   
   
   (2)	a notarized certification signed by a corporate officer stating that the
   company has complied with the safe workplace program statutory requirements;
   
   
   
   (3)	a formal written safety policy developed by the safety committee;
   
   
   
   (4)	regular safety committee meetings with written records;
   
   
   
   (5)	a system for making recommendations to the employer on ways to eliminate
   workplace hazards and unsafe work practices;
   
   
   
   (6)	appropriate training in hazard assessment and control, effective accident
   and incident identification, and the role of the Federal and Local
   Occupational Safety and Health administrations; and
   
   
   
   (7)	annual workplace inspection.

   234.2. Where there is a duty to bargain collectively, the employer shall
   collectively bargain the use and implementation of the Safe Workplace Program.

   234.3. A Safe Workplace Program derived through the collective bargaining
   process shall be submitted to the Office for certification and must be
   accompanied by the requirements specified in this subsection.

   234.4. Workplace inspections conducted by contractors or persons other than
   safety committee members and any training provided or to be provided shall be
   provided by a certified safety professional and must be appropriate to
   conditions in the work place. persons other than safety committee members and
   any training provided or to be provided shall be provided by a certified
   safety professional and must be appropriate to conditions in the work place.

   234.5. The name, address, certification number and certifying organization of
   the safety specialists providing the training must be submitted with the
   workplace safety program certification request.

   234.6. Copies of any Safe Workplace Plan forwarded to the Office for
   certification pursuant to this section shall concurrently be forwarded to the
   employer&#8217;s insurer for its review. The insurer shall forward any written
   comments or objections it may have to the Office and the employer within 25
   days of its receipt of the Safe Workplace Plan. If the insurer does not
   forward comments or objections to the employer&#8217;s plan to the Office, it
   shall be presumed that the insurer has no objections to the plan.

   234.7. Within 30 days after receiving the proposed Safe Workplace Program, the
   Office or the Office&#8217;s Designee shall review the program for compliance
   with the requirements provided herein and shall notify the employer that the
   program is in compliance or that the program is not in compliance. Where it is
   determined that the program is not in compliance, the notification shall set
   forth in detailed explanation of the determination.

   234.8. The Office may request that employers participating in the Safe
   Workplace Program submit to the Office in a prescribed format information
   including, but not limited to, statistical data on accident rates,
   workers&#8217; compensation costs and workplace safety program implementation
   costs.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 6454 (August 11,
   2000).
