                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR REVIEW (ยง 7-258)

258.1. Any party adversely affected or aggrieved by a compensation order or
   final decision issued by the Administrative Hearings Division or the Office of
   Workers&#8217; Compensation may appeal the compensation order or final
   decision to the Board by filing an Application for Review pursuant to this
   section. The party filing the Application for Review shall be designated as
   the &#8220;petitioner&#8221; for purposes of proceedings before the Board on
   appeal.

   258.2. An Application for Review must be filed within thirty (30) calendar
   days from the date shown on the certificate of service of the compensation
   order or final decision from which appeal is taken.

   258.3. An Application for Review must include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	An original and three (3) copies of the Application for Review, and
   
   
   
   (b)	an original and three (3) copies of a supporting memorandum of points and
   authorities setting forth the legal and factual basis for requesting review.

   258.4. The Application for Review shall also:
   
   
   
   (a)	identify the compensation order or final decision from which the
   petitioner appeals;
   
   
   
   (b)	state whether the compensation order or final decision was issued by the
   Office of Workers&#8217; Compensation or the Administrative Hearings Division;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	include, by way of attachment to the Application for Review, a copy of the
   compensation order or final decision appealed.

   258.5. When the petitioner files the Application for Review with the Clerk of
   the Board the Clerk shall issue a Notice of Application for Review and serve
   it on all parties. This Notice shall inform the parties of the filing of the
   Application, of the time period prescribed for filing pleadings in response
   thereto, and of such additional information as the Clerk may deem warranted.

   258.6. At the same time that the petitioner files the Application for Review
   and supporting memorandum with the Board, the petitioner shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	serve a copy, by mail or personal delivery, copies of same upon the
   opposing party(ies), who shall be designated the &#8220;respondent(s)&#8221;
   for purposes of proceedings before the Board on appeal;
   
   
   
   (b)	serve a copy on either the Administrative Hearings Division or the Office
   of Workers&#8217; Compensation, depending upon which office issued the
   compensation order or final decision from which the appeal is taken; and,
   
   
   
   (c)	file with the Board certification that such service required by this
   section was effected.

   258.7. A party adverse to the Application for Review may file a response in
   opposition. The party filing the opposition shall be designated as the
   &#8220;respondent&#8221; for purposes of proceedings before the Board on
   appeal.

   258.8. Any response in opposition must be filed with the Clerk of the Board
   within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of filing of the Application
   for Review.

   258.9. The response in opposition to the Application for Review must include
   an original and three (3) copies. An additional copy of the response shall be
   served, by mail or personal delivery, upon the petitioner.

   258.10. Within five (5) calendar days of receipt of a memorandum filed in
   opposition to an Application for Review, the petitioner may file a reply
   memorandum (original and three copies) with the Board, and serve copy of same
   upon the respondent. No further submissions by the parties shall be permitted,
   unless requested by the Review Panel to which the appeal is assigned or as
   provided under section 258.11 dealing with a cross- appeal.

   258.11. If the Board receives a timely Application for Review, any other party
   may initiate a cross-appeal by filing, with the Clerk of the Board, a Notice
   of Cross-Appeal within seven (7) calendar days of the receipt of the
   Application for Review, or within the time prescribed by section 258.8,
   whichever period last expires.

   258.12. The Notice of Cross-Appeal shall include an original and three copies
   of an accompanying memorandum of points and authorities in support of the
   Cross-Appeal and shall be served upon the petitioner.

   258.13. The petitioner shall have five (5) calendar days from the date of
   service to file with the Clerk of the Board, a memorandum of points and
   authorities in opposition thereto.

   258.14. No further pleadings or other submissions with regard to the
   cross-appeal shall be allowed.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 8405
   (September 9, 2005) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52
   DCR 11093 (December 23, 2005).
