                                  DC REGULATIONS

DECISION OF THE REVIEW PANEL (ยง 7-267)

267.1. The designated Review Panel shall dispose of the matter under review,
   utilizing the standards of review contained in section 266 of this Chapter, by
   issuing a decision:
   
   
   
   (a)	affirming the compensation order or final decision;
   
   
   
   (b)	reversing it in whole or in part;
   
   
   
   (c)	amending the compensation order or final decision based on the Review
   Panel&#8217;s findings; or
   
   
   
   (d)	remanding the case to the issuing Administrative Law Judge or claims
   examiner for further action as is warranted including, inter alia, further
   hearing and evidentiary development, additional findings of fact or
   conclusions of law, and the issuance of a new compensation order on remand.

   267.2. If a substantial question of law or fact prevents the Review Panel from
   affirming the compensation order, decision or award under review, the Review
   Panel may order that it be set aside and remand the case for additional
   proceedings based upon specific findings of deficiencies in the compensation
   order, decision or award.

   267.3. In appropriate cases, such as where the issues raised on appeal have
   been thoroughly discussed and disposed of in prior cases by the Board or the
   courts, or where the findings of fact and conclusions of law are both correct
   and adequately discussed in the compensation order under review, the Board in
   its discretion may issue a brief, summary written decision disposing of the
   appeal and/or adopting the compensation order under review.

   267.4. In cases which cannot be disposed of in a summary manner, the Review
   Panel shall issue a written order which shall fully discuss the legal and
   factual basis for the decision.

   267.5. The Review Panel shall only issue an amended compensation order where a
   remand to the Administrative Hearings Division or the Office of Workers&#8217;
   Compensation would be unnecessary (e.g. where there is but one action that the
   Review Panel decision would permit), and thus remand would be superfluous.

   267.6. The Decision and Order of the Review Panel shall be final upon its
   issuance and shall constitute the final decision of the Board.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 8405
   (September 9, 2005) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52
   DCR 11093 (December 23, 2005).
