                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPENSATION ORDER REVIEW BOARD RULES OF GENERAL APPLICATION (ยง 7-261)

261.1. These Rules shall not be construed to extend or limit the jurisdiction
   or authority of the Board.

   261.2. Chapter 7 DCMR sections 265 to 271 sets forth the Compensation Review
   Board Rules of Practice and Procedure. Those rules are fully applicable to
   this section

   261.3. Except as otherwise provided, the rules promulgated in section 258,
   dealing with Applications for Review, apply to all appeals of any compensation
   orders and final decisions issued by the Administrative Hearings Division or
   Office of Workers&#8217; Compensation with respect to claims for compensation
   or benefits under the Private Sector and Public Sector Acts.

   261.4. Where a procedural issue coming before the Board is not specifically
   addressed herein or by section 258, the Board may rely upon the Rules of the
   District of Columbia Court of Appeals, and the Rules of Civil Procedure of the
   D.C. Superior Court where appropriate.

   261.5. The Board shall have power to preserve and enforce order during any
   proceedings for determination or adjudication of entitlement to compensation
   or benefits or for liability for payment thereof, and to do all things in
   accordance with law which may be necessary to enable the Board to effectively
   discharge its duties.

   261.6. If a party in proceedings before the Board disobeys or resists any
   lawful order or process,or otherwise acts to obstruct the same, the Board may
   certify the facts to the District of Columbia Superior Court which shall
   thereupon, in a summary manner, hear the evidence as to the acts complained
   of, and if the evidence so warrants, punish such party in the same manner and
   to the same extent as for a contempt committed before the court, or commit
   such party upon the same conditions as if the doing of the forbidden act had
   occurred with reference to the process or in the presence of the court.

   261.7. A timely motion for reconsideration of a compensation order filed with
   the Administrative Hearings Division shall not stay the running of the thirty
   (30) day period for filing an Application for Review with the Board prescribed
   in section 258.2 of these regulations. Where, however, a motion for
   reconsideration is not ruled upon prior to the filing of an Application for
   Review, the pendency of the motion may serve as a basis for a stay of
   proceedings on a timely appeal before the Board until the motion is ruled upon
   by the Administrative Hearings Division.

   261.8. The time periods specified for submitting any filing described in
   section 258, except that for the filing of an Application for Review, may be
   enlarged for a reasonable period when, in the judgment of the Board, and upon
   a showing of exceptional circumstances by the requesting party, an enlargement
   is warranted.

   261.9. A request for an enlargement of time shall be submitted in writing in
   the form of a motion, specifying the reasons for the request, and shall be
   directed to the Clerk of the Board.

   261.10. The request must be received by the Clerk on or prior to the date on
   which the filing is due.

   261.11. The parties to an appeal before the Board shall use the requirements
   of Rule 28 of the Rules of the D.C. Court of Appeals, to the extent
   practicable, as guidelines in the preparation and formatting of memorandum of
   points and authorities and other legal memorandum required to be filed with
   the Board.

   261.12. Cases may, in the sole discretion of the Board, be consolidated for
   purposes of an appeal upon the motion of any party or upon the Board&#8217;s
   own motion where there exist common parties, common questions of law or fact
   or both, or for such other circumstances as justice and the administration of
   the Acts requires.

   261.13. Upon its own motion, or upon motion of any party, the Board may, for
   good cause, order any proceeding severed with respect to some or all issues or
   parties.

   261.14. No Administrative Law/Appeals Judge shall maintain standing, chamber
   or other individual rules.

   261.15. Nothing in these rules, however, shall be construed to limit the
   authority of the Chief Administrative Appeals Judge to approve the use of
   forms, documents and practices not inconsistent with these rules that shall
   assist in managing appeals coming before the Board, nor shall these rules
   limit the authority of an Administrative Law/Appeals Judge to issue any lawful
   order for purposes of case management or any other matter in particular cases.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 8405
   (September 9, 2005) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52
   DCR 11093 (December 23, 2005).
