                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUBCONTRACTS (ยง 29-4705)

4705.1. CFSA may, subject to MAA&#8217;s written approval, subcontract the
   provision of TCM services.

   4705.2. Each subcontract entered into by CFSA shall be submitted to MAA for
   approval prior to the execution of the subcontract.

   4705.3. MAA shall notify CFSA, in writing, of the approval or disapproval of
   the proposed subcontract within thirty (30) days of receipt of the proposed
   subcontract and supporting documentation.

   4705.4. Failure to notify CFSA of the approval or disapproval of the proposed
   subcontract within the thirty (30) day time period shall be construed as
   approval of the proposed subcontract.

   4705.5. MAA may require CFSA to furnish additional information relating to the
   subcontractor, the subcontractor&#8217;s ability to carry out the proposed
   obligations under the subcontract, and procedures to be followed by CFSA in
   monitoring the subcontractor&#8217;s performance.

   4705.6. CFSA shall not enter into a subcontract with a provider who has been
   convicted of any crime or who has been the subject of any sanction described
   in section 1128 of the Social Security Act. MAA shall not reimburse CFSA for
   any services provided to a Medicaid recipient by a subcontractor who has been
   convicted of a crime or who has been the subject of a sanction described in
   section 1128 of the Social Security Act.

   4705.7. Each subcontract shall be in writing and shall contain, at a minimum,
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Information identifying the subcontractor, including the name, address and
   type of organization;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the services to be provided or other activities to be
   performed by the subcontractor, in a form that permits MAA to definitively
   determine the nature and scope of the Medicaid obligations that have been
   subcontracted;
   
   
   
   (c)	An agreement that financial and programmatic information, records, and
   data collected and maintained by the subcontractor that relate to TCM services
   shall be made available to CFSA and MAA for inspection;
   
   
   
   (d)	An agreement that the subcontractor shall look solely to CFSA for
   compensation for TCM services provided to eligible Medicaid beneficiaries;
   
   
   
   (e)	Assurances that the subcontractor has all applicable licenses,
   accreditation, and certificates of operation and registration;
   
   
   
   (f)	Assurances of appropriate professional liability coverage;
   
   
   
   (g)	Assurances that the subcontractor shall comply with all applicable
   provisions of District and federal law and rules pertaining to Title XIX of
   the Social Security Act, and all District and federal laws and rules
   applicable to the service or activity covered by the subcontract; and
   
   
   
   (h)	If the subcontract is subject to assignment, an agreement that no
   assignment shall take effect without written prior approval from MAA.

   4705.8. No subcontract shall terminate the legal obligations of CFSA to ensure
   that all activities carried out by the subcontractor conform to the
   requirements set forth in these rules.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 5257 (June 23, 2000)
   [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7084 (September
   1, 2000).
