                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMMUNITY BEAUTIFICATION PROJECTS (ยง 19-1105)

1105.1. Private persons and organizations may maintain or beautify parks,
   playgrounds, and recreation centers under the jurisdiction of the Department
   of Recreation and Parks.

   1105.2. Maintenance or beautification of parks, playgrounds, and recreation
   centers under this section shall be performed in accordance with the
   provisions of a Cooperative Agreement to be entered into between the private
   person or organization and the Director of the Department of Recreation and
   Parks.

   1105.3. The Cooperative Agreement shall include, but not be limited to, the
   conditions set forth in this section.  These conditions shall be agreed to by
   the private person or organization desiring to maintain or beautify a park,
   playground, or recreation center.

   1105.4. A person or organization desiring to enter into a Cooperative
   Agreement under this section shall submit to the Director of the Department of
   Recreation and Parks a plan for the maintenance or beautification of the park,
   playground, or recreation center.

   1105.5. All maintenance and beautification work authorized by this section
   shall be performed in a manner that will not adversely affect the public
   health, safety, and comfort.

   1105.6. Improvements made to parks, playgrounds, or recreation centers by
   private persons or organizations under this section shall become the property
   of the District of Columbia government.

   1105.7. Nothing in this section shall be understood to permit the Director of
   the Department of Recreation and Parks to accept maintenance or beautification
   services from a private person or organization in circumstances that would be
   a violation of Chapter 18 of the District of Columbia Personnel Regulations.

   1105.8. The District of Columbia reserves the right to remove immediately, and
   without prejudice to the District, any dangerous condition resulting from a.
   maintenance or beautification project authorized by this section, and reserves
   the right to terminate a Cooperative Agreement at any time.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 38 DCR 4096 (July 5, 1991).
