                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 15-3699)

3699.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meaning ascribed:
   
   
   
   Abandoned Calls &#8211; a call received from a customer that a customer
   terminates after the customer selects the menu option and is placed in the
   queue, but before the call is answered by the utility customer representative
   or any other automated response system.
   
   
   
   Call Abandonment Rate &#8211; the annual number of calls to the
   utility&#8217;s call center or business office that were abandoned, divided by
   the total number of calls that the company received.
   
   
   
   Call Answering &#8211; a process whereby a utility representative, voice
   response unit, or other automated operator system is ready to render
   assistance or ready to accept information necessary to process a
   customer&#8217;s call. An acknowledgement that the customer is waiting on the
   line does not constitute an answer.
   
   
   
   Composite Performance Index (CPI) &#8211; a measure of feeder performance that
   combines, in a single number, four measures of distribution feeder
   performance: (1) number of interruptions, (2) number of customer hours of
   interruption, (3) system average frequency of interruption, and (4) system
   average interruption duration.
   
   
   
   Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI) &#8211; a performance
   index that measures the average time required to restore service to the
   average customer experiencing a sustained interruption per sustained
   interruption. The measure is calculated by dividing the sum of all customer
   interruption durations (converted into hours) by the total number of customer
   sustained interruptions.
   
   
   
   Electric Utility (or Utility) &#8211; the company that provides electric
   distribution service and is regulated by the Public Service Commission of the
   District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Electricity Supplier &#8211; a person, including an aggregator, broker, or
   marketer, who generates electricity; sells electricity; or purchases, brokers,
   arranges or, markets electricity for sale to customers. The term excludes the
   following: (A) building owners, lessees, or managers who manage the internal
   distribution system serving such building and who supply electricity solely to
   occupants of the building for use by the occupants; (13)(I) any person who
   purchases electricity for its own use or for the use of its subsidiaries or
   affiliates; or (II) any apartment building or office building manager who
   aggregates electric service requirements for his or her building(s), and who
   does not: (i) take title to the electricity; (ii) market electric services to
   the individually-metered tenants of the building; or (iii) engage in the
   resale of electric services to others; (C) property owners who supply small
   amounts of power, at cost as an accommodation to lessors or licensees of the
   property; and (D) a consolidator.
   
   
   
   Interruption duration &#8211; the period of time, truncated or rounded to the
   nearest minute, during which a sustained interruption occurs.
   
   
   
   Major service outages &#8211; customer interruption occurrences and durations
   during time periods when 10,000 or more of the electric utility&#8217;s
   District of Columbia customers are without service and the restoration effort
   due to this major service outage takes more than twenty-four (24) hours.
   
   
   
   Manhole fire &#8211; incident in which flame is visible at holes in the
   manhole cover or around the cover&#8217;s edge and the cover remains seated in
   its frame.
   
   
   
   Manhole explosion &#8211; incident in which a release of energy from the
   manhole occurs and one or more manhole covers are dislodged from their
   respective frames, or other debris, such as cement or dirt, is projected into
   the air.
   
   
   
   Momentary interruption &#8211; loss of electric service of a duration limited
   to the time required to restore electric service by automatic and
   supervisory-controlled switching operation or by manual switching at a
   location where an operator is immediately available. If the automatic,
   supervisory-controlled or manual switching is not completed within five (5)
   minutes of the initial loss of service, the interruption is considered a
   sustained interruption.
   
   
   
   Non-major service outages &#8211; customer service outages caused by the
   failure of devices such as breakers, fuses, feeder lines, substation
   equipment, etc., lasting over eight (8) hours, regardless of how many
   customers are affected; or customer service outages affecting over 100 but
   less than 10,000 customers, regardless of duration.
   
   
   
   Outside assistance &#8211; resources not routinely used by a utility for
   service restoration. Resources transferred among utility operating areas are
   not considered outside assistance.
   
   
   
   Power quality &#8211; the characteristics of electric power received by the
   customer, with the exception of sustained interruptions and momentary event
   interruptions. Characteristics of electric power that detract from its quality
   include waveform irregularities and voltage variations, either prolonged or
   transient.
   
   
   
   Smoking manhole &#8211; a manhole incident in which smoke, but no visible
   flame, is escaping from holes in the cover or around the cover&#8217;s edge.
   
   
   
   Sustained interruption &#8211; loss of electric service not classified as a
   momentary interruption.
   
   
   
   System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) &#8211; a performance index
   that measures the average time customers are interrupted and is calculated by
   dividing the sum of all customer interruption durations (converted into hours)
   by the total number of customers served.
   
   
   
   System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) &#8211; a performance
   index that measures the average frequency of interruptions per customer and is
   calculated by dividing the total number of customer sustained interruptions by
   the total number of customers served.
   
   
   
   Telephone service factor &#8211; the percentage of calls answered within a
   specified amount of time. For example, if the service level time is set at
   thirty (30) seconds and 70 percent of calls are answered in less than 30
   seconds, then the telephone service factor is 70.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 9376 (September 28, 2007); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 1943 (February 29, 2008).
