                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR SERVICE OUTAGES, MANHOLE INCIDENTS, AND POWER QUALITY
COMPLAINTS (ยง 15-3601)

3601.1. The electric utility shall report all major and non-major electricity
   service outages and manhole incidents, as well as incidents known to the
   electric utility that result in the loss of human life, personal injury
   requiring hospitalization, or service disruption directly or indirectly
   arising from or connected with the electric utility&#8217;s maintenance or
   operation, that occur on the electric system within the District of Columbia
   to the Public Service Commission of the District of Columbia and to the Office
   of the People&#8217;s Counsel of the District of Columbia.

   3601.2. Upon notice of the incident, all major service outages shall be
   reported by telephone and e-mail to the Public Service Commission&#8217;s
   Office of Engineering and to the Office of the People&#8217;s Counsel as soon
   as practicable, but not later than one (1) hour after the utility has
   determined a major service outage had occurred.

   3601.3. At a minimum, each telephone and e-mail report rendered by the utility
   subsequent to a major service outage shall state clearly the following
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The location of the service outage(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	The Ward(s) where the service outage(s) occurred;
   
   
   
   (c)	The total number of customers out of service;
   
   
   
   (d)	A preliminary assessment as to the cause of the service outage(s);
   
   
   
   (e)	The estimated repair and/or restoration time; and
   
   
   
   (f)	A notification that the incident has progressed to major service outage
   status as defined herein.

   3601.4. During the course of a major service outage, the utility shall report
   periodically to the Public Service Commission&#8217;s Office of Engineering
   and the Office of the People&#8217;s Counsel regarding the status of the
   service outage and the utility&#8217;s progress in restoration efforts. The
   frequency of such periodic updates to the Office of Engineering shall be
   jointly determined by the utility and the Office of Engineering at the start
   of the service outage and/or as modified during the course of the service
   outage. At a minimum, the utility shall provide an update to the Office of
   Engineering and to the Office of the People&#8217;s Counsel prior to making
   any changes to its estimated restoration time.

   3601.5. Specific restoration information, including estimated restoration
   times, shall be provided to District of Columbia customers by the
   utility&#8217;s customer service representatives and by the utility&#8217;s
   automated voice response unit.

   3601.6. The utility shall report non-major service outages by telephone and
   e-mail to the Public Service Commission&#8217;s Office of Engineering and the
   Office of the People&#8217;s Counsel as soon as practicable upon notice of the
   incident, but no later than one (1) hour after the utility becomes aware of
   the incident.

   3601.7. Notwithstanding the above:
   
   
   
   (a)	The utility shall report a single customer service outage of more than
   eight (8) hours only upon verification that the service outage was caused by
   some event on the utility&#8217;s side of the customer&#8217;s meter; and
   
   
   
   (b)	No report need be filed if the single customer service outage was caused
   by some event on the customer&#8217;s side of the meter.

   3601.8. At a minimum, each telephone and e-mail report concerning a non-major
   service outage shall state clearly the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The location of the service outage(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	The Ward(s) where the service outage(s) occurred;
   
   
   
   (c)	The total number of customers out of service;
   
   
   
   (d)	A preliminary assessment as to the cause of the service outage(s); and
   
   
   
   (e)	The estimated repair and/or restoration time.

   3601.9. The utility shall report by telephone and e-mail all manhole
   incidents, including smoking manholes, manhole fires, and manhole explosions,
   to the Commission&#8217;s Office of Engineering and the Office of the
   People&#8217;s Counsel within thirty (30) minutes upon receiving notice of the
   incident.

   3601.10. At a minimum, each telephone and e-mail report concerning a manhole
   incident shall state clearly the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The location of the incident(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	The Ward(s) where the incident(s) occurred;
   
   
   
   (c)	The total number of customers out of service;
   
   
   
   (d)	A preliminary assessment as to the cause of the incident(s); and
   
   
   
   (e)	The estimated repair and/or restoration time.

   3601.11. The utility shall report by telephone and e-mail all incidents that
   result in the loss of human life and/or personal injury requiring
   hospitalization, directly or indirectly arising from or connected with the
   electric utility&#8217;s maintenance or operation, to the Commission&#8217;s
   Office of Engineering and the Office of the People&#8217;s Counsel within
   thirty (30) minutes upon receiving notice of the incident.

   3601.12. At a minimum, each telephone and e-mail report concerning the loss of
   human life and/or personal injury requiring hospitalization shall state
   clearly the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the incident(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	The location of the incident(s);
   
   
   
   (c)	The Ward(s) where the incident(s) occurred;
   
   
   
   (d)	The total number of customers and/or persons affected;
   
   
   
   (e)	A preliminary assessment as to the cause of the incident(s); and
   
   
   
   (f)	The steps the electric utility will take to provide assistance.

   3601.13. A written report concerning all non-major service outages and/or
   manhole incidents shall be submitted to the Commission and the Office of
   People&#8217;s Counsel within five (5) days of the event occurrence.

   3601.14. At a minimum, each written report concerning non-major service
   outages and/or manhole incidents shall state clearly the following information
   as applicable to the given incident:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the service outage(s) and/or incident(s) and information
   as to the cause of the event(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	The location of the service outage(s) and/or incident(s);
   
   
   
   (c)	The Ward(s) where the service outage(s) or incident(s) occurred;
   
   
   
   (d)	The exact time of the service outage(s) or incident(s) occurrence;
   
   
   
   (e)	The actual repair and restoration times of the service outage(s) and/or
   incident(s);
   
   
   
   (f)	The duration of the service outage(s) and/or incident(s) in hours and
   minutes;
   
   
   
   (g)	The total number of customers affected by the service outage(s) and/ or
   incident(s);
   
   
   
   (h)	The number of manholes involved in the incident(s); and
   
   
   
   (i)	The classification of the manhole incident(s).

   3601.15. Written reports concerning all incidents that result in the loss of
   human life and/or personal injury requiring hospitalization, directly or
   indirectly arising from or connected with the electric utility&#8217;s
   maintenance or operation, shall be submitted to the Commission&#8217;s Office
   of Engineering and the Office of the People&#8217;s Counsel within five (5)
   days of receiving notice of the incident.

   3601.16. At a minimum, each written report concerning the loss of human life
   and/or personal injury requiring hospitalization shall state clearly the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the incident(s) and information as to the cause of the
   event(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	The location of the incident(s);
   
   
   
   (c)	The Ward(s) where the incident(s) occurred;
   
   
   
   (d)	The exact time of the incident(s) occurrence;
   
   
   
   (e)	The total number of customers and/or persons affected;
   
   
   
   (f)	The steps the electric utility took to provide assistance;
   
   
   
   (g)	The amount of time it took for assistance to arrive (if known); and
   
   
   
   (h)	The steps the electric utility will undertake to prevent such an
   occurrence in the future.

   3601.17. The utility shall provide a detailed report on all non-major service
   outages, manhole incidents, and/or incidents that result in the loss of human
   life and/or personal injury requiring hospitalization, to the Productivity
   Improvement Working Group (&#8220;PIWG&#8221;) every quarter.

   3601.18. The utility shall file a written report concerning all major service
   outages with the Public Service Commission and the Office of People&#8217;s
   Counsel within three (3) weeks following the end of a major service outage.

   3601.19. At a minimum, each written report concerning a major service outage
   shall state clearly the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The date and time when the major service outage started, and the date and
   time when the major service outage ended;
   
   
   
   (b)	The date and time when the restoration effort started, and the date and
   time when the restoration effort ended;
   
   
   
   (c)	The date and time when the maximum number of customers were experiencing a
   sustained interruption and the total number of customers affected at that time
   (both on a system-wide basis and for the District of Columbia only);
   
   
   
   (d)	The total number of customers that experienced a sustained interruption
   given in one hour intervals throughout the major service outage (both on a
   system-wide basis and for the District of Columbia only);
   
   
   
   (e)	The total number of customer interruption durations (converted into hours)
   during the major service outage (both on a system-wide basis and for the
   District of Columbia only);
   
   
   
   (f)	Any information concerning requests made for outside assistance, including
   the organization(s) to which such requests were made, the date and time of the
   requests, and the resources requested;
   
   
   
   (g)	Any information concerning outside assistance received, including the
   organization(s) that provided personnel, the date(s) and time(s) of personnel
   arrivals and departures, the number of and types of vehicles provided, the
   total number of personnel received, the total number of personnel assigned to
   primary overhead line crews, the total number of personnel assigned to
   secondary overhead line crews, the total number of personnel assigned to tree
   trimming crews, the total number of personnel assigned to primary underground
   line crews, the total number of personnel assigned to secondary underground
   line crews, and the total number of personnel assigned to substation crews;
   
   
   
   (h)	Any information concerning the utility&#8217;s own personnel and resources
   used in restoration efforts, including the total number and types of vehicles
   used, the total number of utility personnel involved in the restoration
   effort, the number of personnel assigned to primary overhead line crews, the
   total number of personnel assigned to secondary overhead line crews, the total
   number of personnel assigned to damage assessment crews, the total number of
   personnel assigned to tree trimming crews, the total number of personnel
   assigned to primary underground line crews, the total number of personnel
   assigned to secondary underground line crews, the total number of personnel
   assigned to substation crews, and the total number of personnel assigned to
   other supporting activities;
   
   
   
   (i)	Any information concerning customer communications, including the hourly
   call volumes (specifically identifying the total number of customer calls
   received and the total number of calls answered by the utility during each
   hour of the service outage), the hourly staffing numbers (specifically
   identifying the total number of customer service representatives logged into
   the call center and supporting phone systems actively taking or waiting to
   take customer calls), and the telephone service factor provided on an hourly
   basis during the entire duration of the service outage (specifically
   identifying the percentage of answered calls that were answered within a
   60-second timeframe);
   
   
   
   (j)	The total number of customers interrupted and the customer interruption
   durations (converted into hours) caused by each of the following: fallen tree
   or tree limb, fallen or broken pole, lightning damage, ice accumulation on
   conductors, and any other major causes (both on a system-wide basis and for
   the District of Columbia only);
   
   
   
   (k)	The total number of each of the following occurring as part of the
   restoration efforts: the number of poles replaced, the number of distribution
   transformers replaced, the number of fuses replaced, the number of downed
   wires, the number and location of substations where equipment was damaged, the
   number of cross-arms issued for replacement, and the total length (in feet) of
   secondary and primary wires replaced or issued for replacement (both on a
   system-wide basis and for the District of Columbia only);
   
   
   
   (l)	Any issues concerning the availability of materials that affected
   restoration progress and a description of the emergency measures taken to
   resolve such issues;
   
   
   
   (m)	A self-assessment of the utility&#8217;s restoration efforts in the
   District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (n)	The total number of customers, and percent of all customers, restored
   given in one hour intervals throughout the major service outage restoration
   effort (both on a system-wide basis and for the District of Columbia only);
   and
   
   
   
   (o)	An analysis, based upon the availability of the data and all other
   surrounding circumstances, of the utility&#8217;s performance in its current
   restoration efforts as compared to its past restoration efforts, taking into
   account all relevant factors, such as the severity of the current major
   service outage in terms of the percent of customers affected on a system-wide
   or local basis.

   3601.20. The utility shall submit a written report to the Commission on its
   Outage Management System&#8217;s (&#8220;OMS&#8221;) actual performance during
   the major service outage within thirty (30) days after restoration efforts are
   completed.

   3601.21. The utility shall record the number of power quality complaints
   received, the types of complaints received, the results of any subsequent
   investigations and the corrective actions taken, and the time it took to
   resolve the customer&#8217;s problem.

   3601.22. Power quality problems shall include, but shall not be limited to
   disturbances such as voltage spikes or transients, flicker and voltage sags,
   surges and short-time over-voltages, as well as harmonics and noise.

   3601.23. The utility shall report on its Section 3601.21 records every six (6)
   months. The report shall be submitted to the Commission forty-five days
   following the reporting period, starting with the six (6) month reporting
   period following the EQSS&#8217;s adoption in Title 15 of the District of
   Columbia Municipal Regulations (DCMR).

   3601.24. The report submitted pursuant to Section 3601.23 shall exclude
   complaints resolved by the initial response of a trouble crew.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 9376 (September 28, 2007); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 1943 (February 29, 2008).
