                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 23-199)

199.1. When used in this title, the following terms and phrases shall have the
   meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   ABRA &#8211; the Alcoholic Beverage Regulation Administration.
   
   
   
   Act &#8211; Title 25, D.C. Code Enactment and Related Amendments Act of 2001.
   
   
   
   ANC &#8211; an Advisory Neighborhood Commission.
   
   
   
   Applicant &#8211; a person who has made an application for licensure or for a
   permit, and who has an application pending before the Board.
   
   
   
   Back-up drinks &#8211; shall include second drinks served as part of a
   &#8220;two-for-one&#8221; promotion, second drinks served just prior to last
   call and second drinks provided complimentary by the licensee or purchased by
   other patrons. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, back-up drinks
   shall not include two different drinks served together such as a beer and a
   shot or any other industry drink that can be considered a shot and a mixer.
   The prohibition against back-up drinks shall also not apply to the service of
   wine with a meal where the patron has not finished a previously served
   cocktail.
   
   
   
   Board &#8211; the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
   
   
   
   Customer &#8211; the event host who contracts for catering services.
   
   
   
   Entertainment &#8211; live music or any other live performance conducted by an
   actual person or persons, including but not limited to: live bands, karaoke,
   comedy shows, poetry readings, and disc jockeys. The operation of a jukebox, a
   television, a radio, or other prerecorded music shall not be considered
   entertainment.
   
   
   
   Fact-finding hearing &#8211; a hearing held by the Board to obtain further
   information from an applicant in response to either (1) a licensing request or
   (2) an investigation conducted by ABRA.
   
   
   
   Full-service grocery store –
   
   A self-service retail establishment independently owned or part of a
   corporation operating a chain of retail establishments under the same trade
   name that:
   
   
   
   (i) 	Is licensed as a grocery store under § 47-2827; and
   
   
   
   (ii) 	Offers for sale a full line of food products that includes at least six
   (6) of the seven (7) following food categories:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Fresh fruits and vegetables,
   
   
   
   (b) 	Fresh and uncooked meats, poultry and seafood;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Dairy products;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Canned foods;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Frozen foods;
   
   
   
   (f) 	Dry groceries and baked goods; and
   
   
   
   (g) 	Non-alcoholic beverages.
   
   
   
   (B) 	A “full-service grocery store” in subparagraph (A) may include
   related service departments, such as a bakery, pharmacy, or flower shop, as
   well as departments that offer household products and sundries.
   
   
   
   (C) 	A retail establishment shall meet the primary business and purpose
   standard described in Title 25 of the D.C. Official Code if (1) a minimum of
   fifty percent (50%) of the store’s square feet of selling area is dedicated
   to the sale of the food categories listed in (A)(ii) above; or (2) a minimum
   of six thousand (6,000) square feet of the store’s selling area is dedicated
   to the sale of the food categories listed in (A)(ii) above.
   
   
   
   (D) 	A retail establishment that meets either standard set forth in
   subparagraph (C) must also dedicate a minimum of five percent (5%) of the
   store’s selling area set aside for the sale of food items listed in
   subparagraph (A) to each of six (6) of the seven (7) food categories listed in
   subsection (A)(ii).
   
   
   
   (E)  	The term “selling area” means the area in a retail establishment
   that is open to the public and does not include storage areas, preparation
   areas, or rest rooms.
   
   
   
   (F) 	The definition of “full-service grocery store” contained in this
   subsection shall apply to license applications being considered by the Board
   for approval on or after January 14, 2013.
   
   
   
   Letter of information &#8211; a written request from the Board for further
   factual information in response to a request for an advisory opinion.
   
   
   
   Licensure period &#8211; the period of time between the authorized beginning
   and expiration dates for each license.
   
   
   
   Menu &#8211; any presentation, whether written, spoken, or visual, of food
   offerings regularly available in a restaurant.
   
   
   
   OTR &#8211; Office of Tax and Revenue
   
   
   
   Placards &#8211; written notices posted at an establishment for the purpose of
   notifying the public of action involving a license.
   
   
   
   Primary American source &#8211; the manufacturer, distiller, rectifier,
   vintner or importer of the brand of alcoholic beverages at the time that the
   beverage became a marketable product in the United States, or its duly
   authorized agent.
   
   
   
   Problem event &#8211; disruptive activity or conduct at a catered location
   that adversely affects one or more of the appropriateness standards set forth
   in D.C. Official Code § 25-313.
   
   
   
   Roll call hearing &#8211; the proceeding specified in a placard posted at an
   applicant&#8217;s premises. It is at this hearing that the applicant and the
   protestant(s) are introduced to each other and to the Board and where the
   grounds for objection to the license application are read to the public.
   
   
   
   Safekeeping hearing &#8211; proceeding held by the Board to determine whether
   reasonable cause exists to extend the period that a license is held in
   safekeeping with the Board or whether the license should be cancelled by the
   Board.
   
   
   
   Stipulated license &#8211; a temporary license issued to an applicant who has
   received a written letter of support from the ANC where the establishment is
   located that complies with the Board procedures set forth in § 200.1. This
   type of license shall be issued to the applicant only after the time that
   placards have been posted by the establishment and shall expire when the
   applicant receives a permanent license or is protested by an entity with
   standing under D.C. Official Code § 25-601, whichever comes first.
   
   
   
   Status hearing &#8211; the proceeding where the parties inform the Board of
   their progress in attempting to resolve the contested case through informal
   negotiations. It is at this hearing where the parties can request the Board to
   schedule the contested case for an official settlement conference or a protest
   hearing.
   
   
   
   Title &#8211; Title 23 of the District of Columbia Municipal Regulations.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4309 (April 30, 2004); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12991 (December 26, 2008); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 11574 (August 9, 2013).
