                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE (§ 17-3102)

3102.1 	An applicant for a license under this chapter shall do the following:
   
   (a) 	Submit to the Director, on a form prescribed by the Director, a completed
   application signed by the applicant, if the applicant is an individual, or by
   an owner who is licensed as a funeral director, if the applicant is a business
   entity;
   
   (b) 	Demonstrate one of the following:
   
   (1) 	That the applicant is an individual who is licensed and in good standing
   as a funeral director in the District of Columbia; or
   
   (2) 	That the applicant is a business entity which meets the following
   requirements:
   
   (A) 	One of the applicant’s owners is a funeral director who is licensed and
   in good standing in the District of Columbia; and
   
   (B) 	The applicant has designated a principal funeral director who is licensed
   and in good standing in the District of Columbia to be responsible for the
   daily operation of the funeral services establishment;
   
   (c) 	Have the application sworn to before a notary public;
   
   (d) 	Submit with the application two (2) recent passport-size photographs
   measuring two inches by two inches (2” x 2”) of the individual who signed
   the application, and a copy of the certificate of occupancy for the funeral
   services establishment;
   
   (e) 	Pay the application fee; and
   
   (f) 	Pass an inspection conducted under section 3103.
   
   3102.2 	The owner of a funeral services establishment in operation on the
   effective date of this chapter shall apply for a license within thirty (30)
   days of the effective date of this chapter.
   
   3102.3 	The owner of a funeral services establishment not in operation on the
   effective date of this chapter shall apply for a license at least sixty (60)
   days prior to the intended date of operation.
   
   3102.4 	The surviving spouse of representative of the estate of a deceased
   funeral director licensed to operate a funeral services establishment who
   intends to continue to operate the funeral services establishment shall submit
   an application for a license to operate the funeral services establishment
   pursuant to this section within thirty (30) days of the death of the funeral
   director.
   
   3102.5 	An application by a corporation for a license under this section shall
   state the names and street addresses of each of the directors and principal
   officers of the corporation and include a copy of the certificate of
   incorporation.

   3102.6. An application by a partnership for a license under this section shall
   state the names and street addresses of each of the general partners.
   
   3102.7 	Upon the death of a funeral director licensed to operate a funeral
   services establishment, a surviving spouse or the estate of the funeral
   director may apply for a license to continue operating the funeral services
   establishment for the remainder of the licensure period.
   
   3102.8 	The surviving spouse or estate shall notify the Director within ten
   (10) days of the death of the funeral director of the intent to continue
   operating the funeral services establishment and shall apply a license within
   thirty (30) days of the death of the funeral director.
   
   3102.9 	A license may only be issued to a surviving spouse or the estate of
   the funeral director if the requirements of D.C. Code section 2-2805(f) are
   met.
   
   3102.10 	A surviving spouse who is licensed pursuant to section 3102.9 may
   apply for licensure renewal as long as the spouse remains unmarried and
   complies with all other requirements of this chapter.
   
   3102.11 	The estate of a funeral director which receives a license pursuant to
   section 3102.9 shall comply with all other requirements of this chapter and
   may apply for renewal of the license at the end of the licensure period, but
   the total period of licensure may not exceed three (3) years.
   
   3102.12 	If upon renewal of the license of the estate of a funeral director
   the licensure period prescribed in section 3105 exceeds the three (3) year
   statutory limit, the licensure term shall be adjusted to comply with the limit
   and the licensure fee prorated accordingly.
   
   	Source: Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 7853 (October 23, 1992).
