                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 17-3199)

3199.1. As used in this chapter, the following terms have the meanings
   ascribed:
   
   Act – the District of Columbia Services Regulatory Act of 1984, D.C. Law
   5-84, D.C. Code, section 2-2801 et seq.
   
   Board – Board of Funeral Directors for the District of Columbia as
   established by the act.
   
   Business day – a day other than a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or other
   day on which the Department is officially closed.
   
   Department – the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.
   
   Director – the Director of the Department of Consumer and Regulatory
   Affairs, or the Director’s designee.
   
   Escrow account – a bank account held in the name of a funeral services
   establishment that is returnable to the pre-need funeral contract purchaser or
   paid to a third person on the fulfillment of specified conditions.
   
   Federally insured – a bank account insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
   Corporation or by the National Credit Union Administration.
   
   Funeral goods – personal property typically sold or provided in connection
   with the practice of funeral directing, including caskets, cremation or
   transportation containers, vaults, grave liners, funeral clothing or
   accessories, monuments, and grave markers.
   
   Funeral services – services rendered in connection with the practice of
   funeral directing.
   
   Funeral services establishment – a location in the District at which the
   practice of funeral directing is performed or the person or entity which owns
   the funeral business at that location.
   
   Guaranteed pre-need funeral contract – a pre-need funeral contract for
   funeral services and goods that protects the purchaser from future price
   increases.  This type of contract may allow the funeral services establishment
   to retain all escrow funds deposits and insurance proceeds after performance
   of the pre-need funeral contract.
   
   Legal holiday – a day designated as a legal holiday by the President, the
   Congress, or the Mayor or Council of the District of Columbia and which is
   observed by the government of the District of Columbia.
   
   License – a license issued by the Director pursuant to the act and this
   chapter.
   
   Licensee – a funeral services establishment licensed by the District of
   Columbia.
   
   Next of kin – the relatives and priority of relatives as set forth in
   section 3012.2 of Chapter 30 of this title.
   
   Non-guaranteed pre-need funeral contract – a pre-need funeral contract for
   funeral services and goods that does not protect the purchaser from future
   price increases.
   
   Party – a respondent, the Corporation Counsel, or any other person
   recognized by the Director as a party in proceedings under this chapter.
   
   Practice of funeral directing – the care, preservation, disposal, or
   preparation of human remains for funeral services, burial, cremation, or
   transportation.
   
   Pre-need funds – monies received to pay for a pre-need contract.
   
   Pre-need funeral contract – a contract, agreement, or mutual understanding,
   or any series or combination of contracts, agreements, or mutual
   understandings, which has for its purpose the furnishing or performance of
   funeral services, or the furnishing or delivery of personal property, goods,
   or services of any nature in connection with the final disposition of a dead
   human body, to be furnished or delivered at a time determinable by the death
   of the person whose body is to be disposed of, and are paid to the funeral
   services establishment in advance of the death of the pre-need funeral
   contract beneficiary, but does not mean the furnishing of a cemetery lot,
   crypt, niche, or mausoleum. A pre-need funeral contract can be either
   guaranteed or non-guaranteed.
   
   Pre-need funeral contract beneficiary – the person upon whose death the
   pre-need funeral contract will be performed; this person may also be the
   purchaser of the pre-need funeral contract.
   
   Pre-need funeral contract purchaser – a person who purchases a pre-need
   funeral contract.
   
   Respondent – a person against whom an adverse action is contemplated,
   proposed, or taken.
   
   Trust account – a bank account, usually interest bearing, in which a funeral
   establishment deposits money belonging to a client.
   
   Source: Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 7853, 7876 (October 23, 1992); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 4766, 4771 (May 11,
   2012).
