                                  DC REGULATIONS

MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR FUNERAL SERVICES ESTABLISHMENTS (§ 17-3116)

3116.1 	The business or practice of funeral directing shall be conducted only
from a funeral services establishment that is located at a licensed fixed
address registered with the Director.

3116.2 	A funeral services establishment shall include:

(a) 	A chapel or reposing room, containing at least three hundred (300) square
feet of floor space, used exclusively for funeral services;

(b) 	An arrangement office, to be used exclusively for making funeral
arrangements and for related business matters; and

(c) 	A preparation room, to be used exclusively for the preparation,
preservation (including embalming), or other care of human remains.

3116.3 	Separate buildings, or portions thereof, that are connected by a private
passageway, walk, or driveway, may constitute a single funeral services
establishment.

3116.4 	A preparation room shall:

(a) 	Be clean and sanitary at all times;

(b) 	Contain at least one-hundred and twenty (120) square feet of floor space;

(c) 	Be lighted at a minimum of thirty-five (35) foot candles of light on each
preparation table, and twenty-five (25) foot candles of light on all other
working surfaces;

(d) 	Be ventilated at a rate of twelve (12) air changes per hour, and be
otherwise in compliance with the BOCA Mechanical Code, section M-1600 et seq.
(1990) and 20 DCMR Chapter 9; and

(e) 	Be equipped with:

(1) 	Floor, wall, ceiling, and working surfaces made of tile or other hard,
smooth, durable, nonporous, washable, and light-colored material;

(2) 	Hot and cold running water, a utility sink, and cabinets, closets, or
shelves for instruments and supplies;

(3) 	Adequate sewage disposal, waste disposal, and drainage equipment and
facilities which meet the requirements of the District of Columbia Hazardous
Waste Management Act of 1977, D.C. Law 2-64, D.C. Code, section 6-701, et seq.,
and implementing rules;

(4) 	Doors and windows, if any, that are rigid and right-closing and that do not
permit any view into the room;

(5)  	A non-porous table for preparing or preserving human remains; and

(6) 	Disinfectants for the proper sterilization of the preparation room,
equipment, and instruments.

3116.5 	Temporary storage of uncasketed human remains awaiting burial or other
final disposition shall take place only in a preparation room or in a storage
room.  Unembalmed human remains that are stored for over twenty-four (24) hours
shall be stored in a refrigerated storage room.

3116.6 	A funeral services establishment shall have a business telephone in
working order at its registered address, the number of which shall be listed in
the name of the business.  Any other telephone number also listed for the
funeral services establishment shall be specifically designated as a
“residence telephone number”, a “number to call if no answer”, or
otherwise identified.

3116.7 	A funeral services establishment shall display a sign that states the
name of the establishment as registered with the Director.  The sign shall be
conspicuously located at or near the main entrance and shall be visible from the
exterior of the establishment.  The lettering on the sign shall be legible and
have a minimum height of one and one-half (1-1/2) inches.

3116.8 	A funeral services establishment shall conspicuously display its current
license in the establishment.

3116.9 	A funeral services establishment shall use only its name as registered
with the Director in telephone listings, publications, advertisements, or
otherwise conducting business.

3116.10 	Use of space, facilities, equipment, or supplies for, or the
preparation, sale, service, or distribution of food or beverages in any part of
a funeral services establishment to or by clientele is prohibited, except
beverage vending machines are permitted.

3661.11 	A funeral services establishment shall provide telephone information, a
casket price list, an outside receptacle price list, and a general price list as
required by the Funeral Industry Practices Rules of the Federal Trade Commission
(16 Code of Federal Regulations, section 453.2).  Copies of these rules may be
obtained from the Director upon payment of the prescribed fee.

Source: Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 7853, 7861 (October 23, 1992).
