                                  DC REGULATIONS

ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES (§ 20-3102)

3102.1. The Director of the District Department of the Environment (the
   Department or DDOE) is designated as the Floodplain Administrator.

   3102.2. The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
   include, but not be limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Coordinating the review and approval process between the Department of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs (DCRA) and DDOE in order to ensure that the
   applicant for a building permit in an SFHA complies with the applicable
   requirements of this chapter, and that the site is reasonably safe from
   flooding;
   
   
   
   (b) 	As necessary, interpreting SFHA boundaries where there appears to be a
   conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions, and providing
   available base flood elevation and flood hazard information;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Reviewing additional hydrologic, hydraulic, or other engineering data and
   studies required to support the request for a Letter of Map Change from FEMA;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Maintaining copies of the FIRM and FIS, and all revisions and amendments
   to the flood maps and studies, which shall be on file at the Watershed
   Protection Division, District Department of the Environment, and posted on the
   Department’s website at http://ddoe.dc.gov;
   
   
   
   (e)	Ensuring that all records that are necessary for the administration of
   this Chapter are maintained and permanently kept, and made available for
   public inspection, including FIRMs, FISs, Letters of Map Amendment, and
   Letters of Map Revision, required certifications and documentation specified
   by this Chapter;
   
   
   
   (f)	Either requiring that applicants for building permits provide
   notifications to adjacent communities and FEMA related to alterations of
   watercourses, or providing public notification of alterations of watercourses;
   
   
   
   (g)	Ensuring that records of as-built lowest floor elevations or Elevation
   Certificates, Floodproofing Certificates, and other certifications or proof of
   compliance required by § 3104 are maintained; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Providing annual progress reports to Council and reports to the Federal
   Insurance Administrator, as required by FEMA.

   3102.3. The duties and responsibilities of DCRA, by the Code Official, shall
   include but not be limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Issuing building permits for all new construction and development,
   including substantial improvements, within any SFHA; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Ensuring that all new construction and development, including substantial
   improvements, in any SFHA is compliant with all of the adopted Construction
   Codes and ASCE 24, and the requirements of this Chapter where specified.

   3102.4. Each agency identified in this Chapter shall be responsible for the
   implementation of the substantive requirements of this Chapter. For example,
   the provisions of this Chapter regarding structural requirements are regulated
   and enforced by DCRA under the District’s Building Code, while land
   disturbing activities such as excavation, filling, grading, and determination
   of base flood elevations and impacts on flood elevations, continue to be
   regulated and enforced by DDOE. Applicants for construction and development in
   the flood hazard areas are required to obtain a building permit from DCRA, the
   application for which will be reviewed by the relevant agencies identified in
   this Chapter for compliance with this Chapter. Subdivision applications will
   be filed with DCRA, and then sent to DDOE for review of the SFHA boundaries.
   If a subdivision is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever
   is the lesser, then the applicant will be required to provide base flood
   elevation data with the subdivision application to be reviewed by DDOE.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 6547, 6548 (November 15, 1985)
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 962 (February 12, 1988); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10765 (November 19,
   2010).
