                                  DC REGULATIONS

TECHNICAL PROVISIONS (§ 20-3105)

3105.1. In order to prevent excessive damage to buildings and structures due
   to flooding, the provisions of this section shall apply to all proposed
   construction or development occurring in any SFHA.

   3105.2. Within SFHAs, the lowest floor (including basement) of any new
   construction of, or substantial improvement to, residential structures shall
   be at least one and one-half feet (1-1/2 ft.) above the base flood elevation
   and shall be verified by an Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or its
   latest available version from www.fema.gov.

   3105.3. Within SFHAs, the lowest floor (including basement) of any new
   construction of, or substantial improvement to, non-residential structures
   shall be at least one and one-half feet (1-1/2 ft.) above the base flood
   elevation or be designed and constructed to be floodproofed during any flood
   up to that height. Elevation and floodproofing shall be verified by an
   Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) and a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA
   81-65), or their latest available versions from www.fema.gov.
   
   
   
   3105.4 	For any new construction of, or substantial improvement to,
   non-residential structures within SFHAs, enclosed space below the lowest floor
   (including basement) which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle,
   building access, or incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall
   be designed and constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of flood
   waters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls.
   
   
   
   Designs shall be certified by a District registered professional engineer or
   architect that designs are in accordance with ASCE 24 publication (Flood
   Resistant Design and Construction) or shall meet or exceed the following
   minimum criteria:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A minimum of two (2) openings having a net total area of not less than
   one square inch (1 in.2) for every square foot (1 ft.2) of enclosed space;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1 ft.) above
   grade; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or
   devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.

   3105.5. Any non-residential structure, or part thereof, which will not be
   completely or adequately elevated, shall be designed and constructed to be
   floodproofed in accordance with the standards contained in the publication
   entitled “Non-Residential Floodproofing – Requirements and Certification
   (Technical Bulletin 3-93)” or its latest available version by FEMA from
   www.fema.gov, or some other equivalent standard for that type of construction.
   Designs shall be certified by a District registered professional engineer or
   architect, and floodproofing shall be verified by a Floodproofing Certificate
   (FEMA 81-65) or its latest available version from www.fema.gov.

   3105.6. The following minimum standards shall apply for all new construction
   or development proposed to be undertaken within any SFHA:
   
   
   
   (a) 	If fill is used, it shall:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Extend laterally at least fifteen feet (15 ft.) beyond the building line
   from all points;
   
   
   
   (2) 	Consist of soil or small rock materials only. Sanitary landfills shall
   not be permitted;
   
   
   
   (3) 	Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and resistance to
   erosion, scouring, or settling;
   
   
   
   (4) 	Be no steeper than one (1) vertical to two (2) horizontal, unless
   substantial data, justifying steeper slopes are submitted to, and approved by
   DCRA; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Be used only to the extent that it does not adversely affect adjacent
   properties;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Storm drainage systems shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be designed to convey the flow of stormwater run-off in a safe and an
   efficient manner;
   
   
   
   (2)	Ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive drainage away
   from buildings.
   
   
   
   (3)	Be designed to prevent the discharge of excess run-off onto adjacent
   properties and maintain the rate of stormwater run-off at pre-construction or
   development rates;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Water and sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (1) 	All new or replacement water and sanitary facilities and systems shall be
   designed in accordance with ASCE 24 publication (Flood Resistant Design and
   Construction), and located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
   damage and the infiltration of flood waters;
   
   
   
   (2) 	Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed in accordance
   with ASCE 24 publication (Flood Resistant Design and Construction) to prevent
   the discharge of untreated sewage into flood waters; and
   
   
   
   (3) 	No part of any on-site sewage system, and waste disposal system shall be
   located within any SFHA except in strict compliance with all local regulations
   for such systems. If any such system is permitted, it shall be located so as
   to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it, during a flood;
   
   
   
   (d) 	All gas lines, electrical, meters, transformers, generators, and
   telephone systems, and utilities other than water and sanitary sewer systems,
   shall be located, elevated (wherever possible), and constructed to minimize
   the chance of impairment during a flood;
   
   
   
   (e) 	The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more than one foot
   (1 ft.) below the regulatory flood elevation, and meet the requirements of the
   District’s water pollution control regulations (20 DCMR §§ 500, et seq.);
   
   
   
   (f) 	The storage of any and all materials that may affect the base flood
   elevation or the floodway, and which are not listed in § 3106.2, shall be
   stored at or above the Regulatory Flood Elevation, or else be anchored and
   floodproofed to the maximum extent possible;
   
   
   
   (g) 	All buildings and structures shall be designed, located, and constructed
   so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of water and shall be
   designed to have a minimum effect upon the flow and height of flood water;
   
   
   
   (h) 	Anchoring shall be used as follows:
   
   
   
   (1) 	All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
   accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
   movement; and
   
   
   
   (2) 	All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks, and other similar objects or
   components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be securely
   anchored or affixed to prevent flotation;
   
   
   
   (i) 	Floors, walls, and ceilings shall be designed as follows:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
   installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the floor, perpendicular to
   the flowing grain without causing structural damage to the building;
   
   
   
   (2) 	Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of a
   &#8220;marine&#8221; or &#8220;water resistant&#8221; variety;
   
   
   
   (3) 	Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
   designed and constructed of materials that are water resistant and will
   withstand flooding;
   
   
   
   (4) 	Windows, doors, and other components at or below the regulatory flood
   elevation shall be made of metal or other water resistant material; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Wood fasteners used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of
   a corrosive resistant type (such as hot dipped galvanized or stainless steel);
   
   
   
   	(j) 	Paints and adhesives shall be used as follows:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Paints or other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood elevation
   shall be of a &#8220;marine&#8221; or &#8220;water resistant&#8221; quality;
   
   
   
   (2) 	Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of a
   &#8220;marine&#8221; or “water resistant” quality; and
   
   
   
   (3) 	All wooden components (such as doors, trim, and cabinets shall be
   finished with a &#8220;marine&#8221; or “water resistant” paint or other
   finishing material;
   
   
   
   (k) 	Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three feet (3 ft.) above
   the base flood elevation. Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower
   levels and shall be dropped from above;
   
   
   
   (l) 	Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating units, and
   other electrical, mechanical, or utility equipment or apparatuses shall not be
   located below the regulatory flood elevation; and
   
   
   
   (m) 	All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed to prevent the
   infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharges from the system
   into the flood waters. Additional provisions shall be made for drainage of
   these systems in the event that flood water infiltration occurs.

   3105.7. Within any floodway as designated in the FIRM, no development which
   would result in any increase in the base flood elevation shall be permitted
   unless the increase in flood elevation is fully offset by stream or channel
   improvements which have been approved by the Department.
   
   
   
   3105.8 	Within any SFHA without a floodway, no new construction or development
   shall be allowed unless it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
   Department that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
   combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not
   increase the base flood elevation more than one foot (1 ft.) at any point.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 6547, 6554 (November 15, 1985);
   as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10772 (November
   19, 2010).
