                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 20-3199)

3199.1. When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
   the meaning ascribed:
   
   
   
   Alteration of a Watercourse – an alteration of a watercourse includes, but
   is not limited to, any dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change in channel
   alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area or capacity,
   which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the
   riverine flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   
   
   
   Base Flood – the flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
   exceeded in any given year, also known as “the one-hundred (100) year
   flood.”
   
   
   
   Base Flood Elevation – the elevation of the base flood, including wave
   height, relative to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD), North America
   Vertical Datum (NAVD) or other datum specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
   (FIRM).
   
   
   
   Basement – the portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
   level) on all sides.
   
   
   
   Code Official – the officer or other designated authority charged with the
   administration and enforcement of the building codes, or a duly authorized
   representative, as designated by 12 DCMR A 103.1.
   
   
   
   Construction – the construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair,
   extension, expansion, alteration, or relocation of a building structure.
   
   
   
   DCRA – the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.
   
   
   
   DDOE – the District Department of the Environment, also referred to as
   “Department.”
   
   
   
   Development – any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
   including but not limited to: buildings or other structures, streets and other
   paving, utilities, filling, grading, excavation, mining, dredging, drilling
   operations, storage of equipment or materials, and the subdivision of land.
   
   
   
   Department – the District Department of the Environment, also referred to as
   “DDOE.”
   
   
   
   Dry Floodproofing – a combination of design modifications that result in a
   building or structure, including the attendant utility and sanitary
   facilities, being water tight with walls substantially impermeable to the
   passage of water and with structural components have the capacity to resist
   loads as identified in ASCE 7 (see floodproofing).
   
   
   
   Elevation Certificate – a certificate used to certify building and grade and
   other building information, and elevations to provide elevation information
   necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter, to determine the proper
   insurance premium rate, and to support a request for a Letter of Map Amendment
   (LOMA) or Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F).
   
   
   
   Encroachment – the advancement or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
   buildings, permanent structures or other development into a special flood
   hazard area which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   
   
   
   FEMA – the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   
   
   
   Flood or Flooding – a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
   inundation of normally dry land from:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
   source.
   
   
   
   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) – an official map of a community, on which
   the Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special hazard
   areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   
   
   
   Flood Insurance Study (FIS) – an official report including a Flood Insurance
   Rate Map by the Federal Insurance Administrator evaluating flood hazards and
   containing flood profiles and water surface elevations of the base flood.
   
   
   
   Floodplain – a relatively flat or low land area which is subject to partial
   or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
   watercourse; or any area subject to the usual and rapid accumulation of
   surface waters from any source.
   
   
   
   Floodplain Administrator – the official or office charged with the
   administration and enforcement of this Chapter, for these purposes, DDOE.
   
   
   
   Floodproofing – any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
   changes, adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
   real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
   structures, and their contents.
   
   
   
   Floodway – the channel or a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
   areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
   cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
   height.
   
   
   
   Freeboard – a factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
   for purposes of floodplain management. “Freeboard” tends to compensate for
   the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
   the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
   as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization
   of the watershed.
   
   
   
   Historic Structure – any structure that is:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Individually listed in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
   maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by
   the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
   listing on the National Register;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
   contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
   or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
   registered historic district;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
   historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of
   the Interior; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities
   with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior;
   or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
   
   
   
   Land Disturbing Activity – any earth movement or land change which may
   result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments in the
   District of Columbia, including, but not limited to, stripping, grading,
   excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction or demolition of
   buildings or structures.
   
   
   
   Lowest Floor – the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
   basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
   of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than basement, is
   not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
   not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
   non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   
   
   
   Manufactured Home – a structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections,
   which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without
   a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For flood
   plain management purposes, the term &#8220;manufactured home&#8221; also
   includes park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on
   a site for greater than one hundred and eighty (180) consecutive days.
   
   
   
   Market Value – the price at which a property will change hands between a
   willing buyer and a willing seller, neither party being under compulsion to
   buy or sell and both having reasonable knowledge of relevant facts.
   
   
   
   National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) – a Federal program enabling
   property owners in participating communities to purchase insurance protection
   against losses from flooding. Participation in the NFIP is based on an
   agreement between local communities and the Federal Government that states if
   a community will adopt and enforce a floodplain management ordinance to reduce
   future flood risks to new construction and development in special flood hazard
   areas, the Federal Government will make flood insurance available within the
   community as a financial protection against flood losses.
   
   
   
   New Construction/Date – for floodplain management purposes, structures for
   which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
   the initial FIRM (i.e., November 15, 1985) and includes any subsequent
   improvements to such structures.
   
   
   
   Obstruction – any wall, dam, wharf, embankment levee, dike, pile abutment,
   projection, excavation, channel, rectification, culvert, building, fence,
   stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across or projecting
   into any channel, watercourse, or flood-prone area, which may impede, retard,
   or change the direction of the flow of water either by itself or by catching
   or collecting debris carried by such water or is placed where the flow of the
   water might carry the same downstream to the damage of life and property.
   
   
   
   Recreational Vehicle – a vehicle that is:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Built on a single chassis;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Having total outside dimensions not exceeding four hundred square feet (400
   ft.2) or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
   quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   
   
   
   
   
   Regulatory Flood Elevation – the base flood elevation plus a freeboard
   safety factor of one and one-half feet (1-1/2 ft.).
   
   
   
   Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) – the land in the floodplain within the
   community subject to a 1-percent (1%) chance or greater chance of flooding in
   any given year. The area may be designated in the FIRM as Zone A, A1-30, AE,
   A99, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, or AR/A.
   
   
   
   	Zone A – an area subject to inundation by the one (1)-percent (1%) chance
   or greater chance of flooding in any given year. Because detailed hydraulic
   analyses have not been performed, no base flood elevation or depths are shown.
   
   
   
   	Zone AE – an area subject to inundation by the one (1)-percent (1%) chance
   or greater chance of flooding in any given year determined by detailed
   methods. Base flood elevations are shown within these zones.
   
   
   
   	Zone X – an area identified in the FIRM and FIS as an area of moderate or
   minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area.
   
   
   
   Start of Construction – the date of permit issuance for new construction and
   substantial improvements to existing structures, provided the actual start of
   construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or
   other improvement is within one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of
   issuance. The actual start of construction means the first placement of
   permanent construction of a building (including a manufactured home) on a
   site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, installation of pilings or
   construction of columns.
   
   
   
   Structure – for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed
   building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above
   ground, as well as a manufactured home or recreational vehicle that is on-site
   for more than one hundred eighty (180) days.
   
   
   
   Subdivision – the division or redivision of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
   by any means into two (2) or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of
   land including changes in existing lots lines.
   
   
   
   Substantial Damage – damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
   the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would
   equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
   before the damage occurred.
   
   
   
   Substantial Improvement – any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
   addition, or improvement of a building or structure, the cost of which equals
   or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
   start of construction. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any
   repairs are considered substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair
   work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Any project for improvement of a building required to correct existing
   health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the building official
   and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   
   
   
   (b) 	Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration will
   not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure.
   
   
   
   Violation – the failure of new construction or development to be fully
   compliant with requirements of this Chapter, the Construction Codes (DCMR
   Title 12), the District’s Water Quality and Pollution Control Regulations
   (20 DCMR 500 et. seq.). A structure or other development without the elevation
   certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
   this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
   documentation is provided.
   
   
   
   Wet Floodproofing – floodproofing method that relies on the use of
   flood-damage-resistant materials and construction techniques to minimize flood
   damages to areas below the base flood elevation of a structure intentionally
   allowed to flood (see floodproofing).
   
   
   
   Zone A – see Special Flood Hazard Area
   
   
   
   Zone AE – see Special Flood Hazard Area
   
   
   
   Zone X – see Special Flood Hazard Area
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 6547, 6562 (November 15, 1985);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 962, 963 (February 12,
   1988); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10782
   (November 19, 2010).
