                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES (ยง 17-4407)

4407.1. The Board may, in its discretion, approve continuing education
   programs and activities that contribute to the growth of an applicant in
   professional competence in the practice of dietetics and that meet the other
   requirements of this section.

   4407.2. The Board may approve the following types of continuing education
   programs, if the program meets the requirements of ยง 4407.3:
   
   
   
   (a)	An undergraduate or graduate course given at an accredited college or
   university;
   
   
   
   (b)	A seminar or workshop; and
   
   
   
   (c)	An educational program given at a conference.

   4407.3. To qualify for approval by the Board, a continuing education program
   shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be current in its subject matter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be developed and taught by qualified individuals; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Meet one of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	Be administered or approved by:
   
   
   
   (A)	A national, state or local dietetics organization recognized by the Board;
   
   
   
   (B)	A health care facility accredited by the Joint Commission for the
   Accreditation of Hospitals; or
   
   
   
   (C)	A college or university approved by an accrediting body recognized by the
   Council on Postsecondary Accreditation or the Secretary of the United States
   Department of Education; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Be submitted by the program sponsors to the Board for review no less than
   sixty (60) days prior to the date of the presentation and be approved by the
   Board.

   4407.4. The Board may issue and update a list of approved continuing education
   programs.

   4407.5. An applicant shall have the burden of verifying whether a program is
   approved by the Board pursuant to this section prior to attending the program.
   The applicant shall also have the burden of verifying the number of continuing
   education credits the Board will accept for a program under this section.

   4407.6. The Board may approve the following continuing education activities by
   an applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Serving as an instructor or speaker at a conference, seminar, or workshop;
   
   
   
   (b)	Publication of an article in a professional journal, publication of a book
   or a chapter in a book, or publication of a book review in a professional
   journal or bulletin; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Participation in research as a principal investigator or research
   assistant.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3008, 3012 (April 29, 1988).
