                                  DC REGULATIONS

CERTIFICATION (§ 29-2401)

2401.1. A substance abuse treatment program shall be eligible for full
   certification and full participation in the DTCP when the substance abuse
   treatment program satisfies the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Has a valid certification from the Department as a qualified substance
   abuse treatment program under Chapter 23 of this title; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Complies with any other conditions for certification under the Act, as
   established by the Department and as specified in this Chapter or satisfies
   the requirements for transitional or provisional certification pursuant to §
   2401.9, 2401.10, and 2401.11.

   2401.2. An applicant for DTCP certification shall submit an application to the
   Department with the required fees and attachments for each separate program
   for which the treatment program seeks certification. The Department may
   consider and accept the electronic submission of these materials when
   electronic submission systems are developed and available. The application
   shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	An updated copy of each substance abuse treatment program&#8217;s
   application for certification under Chapter 23 of this title or a letter from
   the Department exempting the substance abuse treatment program from this
   requirement. Application updates shall include, but not be limited to:
   
   
   
   (1)	Current staff licenses and registrations;
   
   
   
   (2)	Current licensures for opioid treatment programs;
   
   
   
   (3)	Current organizational chart and staffing plan;
   
   
   
   (4)	Current written agreements with entities providing program services; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Current program certifications, licenses, letters of accreditation,
   District and federal registrations for controlled substances, and other
   appropriate certificates;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the current certification status of each program offered
   under Chapter 23 of this title. Substance abuse treatment program that have
   submitted a complete application to the Department but have not yet received
   certification may be eligible for certification in the DTCP on a provisional
   basis as specified in § 2401.10;
   
   
   
   (c)	Documentation to support the substance abuse treatment program&#8217;s
   success in the treatment modality for which it is seeking DTCP certification
   as specified in § 2401.3 (a);
   
   
   
   (d)	Documentation of the substance abuse treatment program&#8217;s financial
   resources and sources of future revenues adequate to support operations as
   specified in §§ 2401.3 (b) and 2401.4; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Documentation to support the substance abuse treatment program&#8217;s
   ability to ensure patient health, safety, and welfare as specified in section
   § 2401.11.

   2401.3. In addition to complying with the requirements of Chapter 23 of this
   title, substance abuse treatment program wishing to participate in the DTCP
   shall comply with the following additional requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	A substance abuse treatment program requesting certification shall provide
   evidence of success in the type of treatment modality or rehabilitation
   service for which it is seeking certification consisting of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The substance abuse treatment program shall be fully operational for at
   least twelve (12) months before it submits an application. A substance abuse
   treatment program is fully operational after it is fully staffed and its
   active caseload is at least seventy-five per cent (75%) of capacity;
   
   
   
   (2)	All of the substance abuse treatment program&#8217;s employees shall be
   certified as required by the Health Occupation Revision Act (HORA) of 1985,
   effective March 25, 1986 (DC Law 6-99; DC Code 52-3301 et seq.) and any rules
   promulgated pursuant to the HORA; and
   
   
   
   (3)	The substance abuse treatment program shall have a system that provides
   data on outcome measures; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A substance abuse treatment program shall demonstrate that its available
   financial resources and its sources of future revenues are adequate to meet
   all necessary and proper capital and operating expenses by providing the
   following:
   
   
   
   (1)	An expense and revenue budget for the current year as approved by the
   substance abuse treatment program&#8217;s governing board;
   
   
   
   (2)	An expense and revenue budget for the last completed year of operation;
   
   
   
   (3)	Year-end actual expense and revenue statements for the last completed year
   of operation; and
   
   (4)	Other financial records that the Department may request including, but not
   limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (A)	Notice of Grant Awards;
   
   
   
   (B)	Contracts;
   
   
   
   (C)	Bank statements; or
   
   
   
   (D)	Bank line-of-credit equal to or greater than ninety (90) days of operating
   expenses.

   2401.4. If a substance abuse treatment program is unable to satisfy the
   demonstrations of financial viability required by § 2401.3(b), the Director
   may require the substance abuse treatment program to post a surety bond of not
   more than fifty-thousand dollars ($50,000) before the substance abuse
   treatment program may be certified to participate in the DTCP.

   2401.5. Except as provided in subsection § 2401.6, each substance abuse
   treatment program shall renew its DTCP certification annually.

   2401.6. Annual certification review shall be waived if the substance abuse
   treatment program is in substantial compliance with this chapter for two (2)
   consecutive certification reviews as determined by periodic inspections. A
   substance abuse treatment program shall be ineligible for waiver of the annual
   certification review if any of the following occurs:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Department revokes, suspends, or denies the substance abuse treatment
   program&#8217;s certification under Chapter 23 of this title or under § 2402
   of this Chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Department reduces the substance abuse treatment program&#8217;s
   certification status from full to provisional certification under Chapter 23
   of this title; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The substance abuse treatment program fails to correct deficiencies
   according to the approved corrective action plan.

   2401.7. Notwithstanding qualification for waiver of annual certification
   review by maintaining substantial compliance pursuant to § 2401.6, the
   Department may inspect a substance abuse treatment program certified pursuant
   to this chapter at any reasonable time, with or without notice, upon the
   presentation of appropriate credentials to the owner, operator, or agent in
   charge.

   2401.8. Before a substance abuse treatment program initiates a substantial
   change in the scope of its services by adding or eliminating programs it shall
   apply for recertification under this chapter and shall not eliminate or add a
   service until the Department certifies the change.

   2401.9. The Department may grant transitional certification to a substance
   abuse treatment program. Transitional certification may continue in effect for
   as long as the substance abuse treatment program satisfies the following
   requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	The substance abuse treatment program remains in good standing as a
   certified substance abuse treatment program pursuant to Chapter 23;
   
   
   
   (b)	The substance abuse treatment program complies with § 2401.5 and 2401.6;
   
   
   
   (c)	The substance abuse treatment program is fully or provisionally certified
   pursuant to 29 DCMR Chapter 23; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The substance abuse treatment program has submitted a complete application
   to the Department for certification under DTCP.

   2401.10. The Department may grant provisional certification to a substance
   treatment program that is not fully certified under Chapter 23 of this title
   provided it has submitted a complete and accurate application to the DOH for
   full certification under Chapter 23. The Director shall not grant provisional
   certification to a substance abuse treatment program if the provisional
   certification would adversely affect patient health, safety, or welfare. The
   Director shall not grant provisional certification to a substance abuse
   treatment program if its Chapter 23 certification has been denied, suspended,
   or revoked. To receive a provisional certification the substance abuse program
   shall submit to the Department a copy of all information required by § 2401.2
   and 2401.3. A provisional certification shall be valid for not more than one
   (1) year plus a one-time extension of not more than one hundred eighty (180)
   days to protect public health and safety. To receive the extension the
   substance abuse treatment program shall submit a statement requesting the
   extension, explain its efforts to obtain full Chapter 23 certification, and
   supply a schedule for obtaining full certification. The Director shall not
   grant an extension if he or she determines that patient health, safety, and
   welfare would be adversely affected by granting provisional certification.

   2401.11. Substance abuse treatment program shall ensure patient health,
   safety, and welfare by complying with the following criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	Demonstrate success in providing certified services pursuant to § 2401.3
   (a);
   
   
   
   (b)	Demonstrate fiscal viability pursuant to § 2401.3 (b);
   
   
   
   (c)	Maintain an organized system of record keeping to ensure confidentiality
   of patient medical information;
   
   
   
   (d)	Retain adequate staff and space to ensure patient treatment needs;
   
   
   
   (e)	Provide evidence of clinical care based on a comprehensive needs
   assessment, an identified problem list, and a master treatment or
   rehabilitation plan with periodic updates, and regular progress notes in the
   patient&#8217;s record;
   
   
   
   (f)	Obtain a Certificate of Occupancy for use as a substance abuse treatment
   facility;
   
   
   
   (g)	Maintain a physical facility free of building code violations that could
   endanger patients, staff, or visitors;
   
   
   
   (h)	Continuously comply with local and federal laws regarding all
   certificates, licenses, and accreditation required as a condition of operation
   including, but not limited to, Certificate of Need, Center for Substance Abuse
   Treatment certification for opioid treatment programs;
   
   
   
   (i)	Conduct criminal background checks to ensure that staff have not been
   convicted for fraud, financial misconduct, physical or sexual abuse, or
   improper clinical practices;
   
   
   
   (j)	Allow the Department to enter and inspect any facility during reasonable
   hours or review any records necessary to determine compliance with these
   requirements; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Not have serious violations or repeat violations of patient rights
   pursuant to 29 DCMR 2329.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 3720 (April 9, 2004); as amended
   by Emergency Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 1604 (February 14, 2003)
   [EXPIRED]; as amended by Emergency Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 11039
   (December 6, 2002) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking
   published at 49 DCR 8758(September 20, 2002) [EXPIRED].
