                                  DC REGULATIONS

ELIGIBILITY (ยง 29-2405)

2405.1. Any person seeking substance abuse treatment shall participate in an
   eligibility determination process and shall meet the following eligibility
   requirements before qualifying to participate in the DTCP:
   
   
   
   (a)	The applicant shall provide proof of District residency by presenting one
   (1) of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A valid motor vehicle operator&#8217;s permit issued by the District;
   
   
   
   (2)	A non-driver identification card issued by the District;
   
   
   
   (3)	A voter registration card with an address in the District;
   
   
   
   (4)	A copy of a lease or a rent receipt for real property located in the
   District;
   
   
   
   (5)	A utility bill for real property located in the District; or
   
   
   
   (6)	A copy of the most current federal income tax return or Earned Income
   Credit Form.
   
   
   
   (b)	A participant in the DTCP shall maintain District residency while
   participating in the DTCP. The Department may require a participant to produce
   evidence of continued District residency while receiving treatment in the
   DTCP.
   
   
   
   (c)	An applicant shall attest, under penalty of perjury, that he or she lacks
   insurance coverage for the services necessary to treat addiction;
   
   
   
   (d)	An applicant shall provide proof of inability to pay the full charges for
   services. Proof of inability to pay may include any of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Originals or copies of all earnings statements received within the
   previous thirty (30) days;
   
   
   
   (2)	A copy of the first two (2) pages of a District of Columbia tax return for
   the most recent tax year;
   
   
   
   (3)	A copy of the first page of a Federal tax return for the most recent tax
   year;
   
   
   
   (4)	For newly employed applicants, a copy of an offer of employment that
   states the amount of salary to be paid;
   
   
   
   (5)	A copy of a Social Security or worker&#8217;s compensation benefit
   statement;
   
   
   
   (6)	Proof of child support or alimony received; and
   
   
   
   (7)	Proof of any other benefits.
   
   
   
   (e)	An applicant shall provide all information the Department may request for
   the purpose of determining the applicant&#8217;s eligibility for Medical
   Assistance (Medicaid), or eligibility for payment for treatment on a sliding
   fee schedule, or both.

   2405.3. Priority for placement in the DTCP shall not be based on the order in
   which the Department receives applications. Instead, the order of priority for
   placement, as funds and treatment spots become available, shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	A pregnant woman;
   
   
   
   (b)	An eligible minor;
   
   
   
   (c)	A parent, guardian, or other person who has legal custody of a minor; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any other person who qualifies for treatment by satisfying all of the
   requirements in ยง 2405.1

   2405.4. All payments for treatment through the DTCP are subject to the
   availability of funds in the Fund. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
   to create an entitlement to substance abuse treatment during any fiscal year.
   The ability of any person to participate in the DTCP is dependent on whether
   funds remain available to the District government under a District or Federal
   appropriation that has been enacted for the specific purpose of providing
   substance abuse treatment services.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 3720 (April 9, 2004); as amended
   by Emergency Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 1604 (February 14, 2003)
   [EXPIRED]; as amended by Emergency Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 11039
   (December 6, 2002) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking
   published at 49 DCR 8758(September 20, 2002) [EXPIRED].
