                                  DC REGULATIONS

FUEL OIL TANKS IN PUBLIC SPACE[COLON] PUBLIC ACCESS (ยง 24-2006)

2006.1. The permit issued under ยง2005 shall be granted on condition that the
   District has the right at any time to construct water pipes, gas pipes,
   sewers, conduits, or other pipes, or any underground construction that the
   Mayor may deem necessary to install under, over, around, or adjacent to the
   fuel oil tank

   2006.2. The permit shall be issued and accepted with the understanding that
   the occupation of the tank space is permitted merely as an accommodation to
   the owner of the abutting premises, and that no right, title, or interest of
   the public is in any way waived or abridged by the issuance of the permit.

   2006.3. If the street, roadway, or sidewalk is widened, the fuel oil tank
   shall be changed to correspond with the widened street, roadway, or sidewalk,
   without expense to the District, as directed by the Mayor.

   2006.4. The permit shall be granted on the further condition that the owner or
   owners, their heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, shall remove
   entirely the tank and its appurtenances, immediately upon notice from the
   Mayor that water pipes, gas pipes, sewers, conduits, or other pipe or
   underground construction are to be installed in the space occupied by the
   tank. The tank shall be removed from the public space or to a new location to
   be designed by the Mayor without cost to the District, so as to leave a space
   clear and sufficient in the judgement of the Mayor for the introduction and
   maintenance of any underground construction that the Mayor deems is necessary.

   2006.5. The owner or owners, their heirs, executors, administrators, or
   assigns shall agree to pay rental to the District in the amount prescribed by
   law or regulation for vault space.

   2006.6. In the event of failure to pay the vault space rental, or any part of
   the rental, the permit shall be voided within thirty (30) days from the date
   the rental is demanded by the Mayor; and the tank and its appurtenances shall
   be removed immediately upon an order from the Mayor that they be removed.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 12, ยง13 of the Police Regulations (May 1981).
