                                  DC REGULATIONS

FUEL OIL TANKS IN PUBLIC SPACE[COLON] GENERAL PROVISIONS (§ 24-2005)

2005.1. Storage tanks for fuel oil may be located in public space when, in the
   opinion of the Mayor, the installation is justified.

   2005.2. The placement of fuel oil tanks in public space shall be subject in
   all cases to conditions of agreement relating to vaults which requires the
   removal of tank equipment when, in the opinion of the Mayor, the space that is
   occupied by the tank and equipment is needed for the introduction of water
   pipes, gas pipes, sewers, conduits, or other pipes or underground
   construction.

   2005.3. Unless specifically authorized to the contrary by the Mayor, in
   sections zoned other than residential, fuel oil tanks of an approved size and
   location shall be placed in existing or newly constructed vaults in public
   alleys, sidewalks, or parking space adjoining the property to be served.

   2005.4. In sections zoned as residential, a fuel oil storage tank may, if
   necessary, be buried in the ground in a public alley, sidewalk, or parking
   abutting on the property to be served.

   2005.5. The top of the fuel oil tank shall be at least four feet (4 ft.) below
   the surface of the alley, sidewalk, or parking; and the tank shall be placed
   so that its major axis is horizontal and parallel to the building line of the
   property to be served.

   2005.6. The tank shall be placed as close to the building line as practical;
   but no part of the tank shall lie below a plane passing through the outside,
   lower edge of the footing of the bearing wall of any building, or projection
   of the building, and sloping downward and outward from the building at an
   angle of forty-five degrees (45○) below the horizontal plane passing through
   the same edge of the footing.

   2005.7. No part of the tank shall be closer than two and one-half feet (2 1/2
   ft.) to the center line of a public alley, nor shall any part of the tank be
   closer than one foot (1 ft.) to a bearing wall or to any party line extended
   through the alley, sidewalk, or parking.

   2005.8. The installation of each tank shall comply in other respects with the
   terms of any permit issued for the installation, and with applicable
   regulations covering underground storage tanks.

   2005.9. The installation of each tank shall be subject to the execution of an
   agreement relating to fuel oil tanks in public space.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 12, §12 of the Police Regulations (May 1981).
