                                  DC REGULATIONS

FUEL OIL TANKS IN PUBLIC SPACE[COLON] FILLING PIPES (§ 24-2007)

2007.1. Filling pipe for conveying fuel oil to storage tanks in approved
   locations may be located in an alley adjacent to the tank in or adjacent to a
   private driveway, or under a sidewalk that terminates in the back of a curb.

   2007.2. When, in the judgment of the Mayor, it is impractical to extend the
   pipe line to the curb, the pipe may be terminated at a satisfactory point in
   back of the sidewalk, under the conditions set forth in §§2007.3 through
   2007.9.

   2007.3. The inlet to the filling pipe shall be in a cast-iron box with a
   protective cover of an approved pattern.

   2007.4. The pipe shall be laid and kept flush with the sidewalk or alley
   surface.

   2007.5. The owner(s) shall, at their own risk and expense, keep in a safe
   condition any trench or excavation made by or for them in any street or
   sidewalk or other public space, until the District repairs or resurfaces the
   trench or excavation.

   2007.6. The owner(s) shall comply with the terms and conditions of the permit
   for the fill pipe.

   2007.7. The location of an underground pipe line and inlet box is a privilege,
   and the permit for an underground pipe line and inlet box may be revoked at
   any time by the Mayor.

   2007.8. If the permit is revoked, the pipe line and box shall be removed and
   the surface of the sidewalk or other public space restored by the permittee
   without any cost to the District.

   2007.9. The owner(s) (and their heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns)
   must agree to save harmless, indemnify, and keep indemnified the District from
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any injury to person or property, and any cost, loss, or damage caused
   because the owner&#8217;s failure to keep the underground pipe line and
   appurtenances in safe condition at all times;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any injury to persons or property, or any cost, loss, or damage caused by
   the owner&#8217;s failure to keep the trench or excavation in a safe condition
   during and after the execution of the work, and until the trench or excavation
   if repaired or resurfaced by the District; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Any injury, loss, or damage to persons or property occasioned by the use
   of the underground pipe line and its appurtenances, or by any failure to
   observe and comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 12, §14 of the Police Regulations (May 1981).
