                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRACTICE BY REGISTERED NATUROPATHS (§ 17-5003)

5003.1. A person registered to practice naturopathy may use the title
   &#8220;Doctor of Naturopathy&#8221;.

   5003.2. As required by Section 901 (c) of the Act, all naturopaths who are not
   licensed to practice medicine under the Act shall provide to all clients or
   patients a written notice which shall read as follows:
   
   
   
   This notice is provided to you pursuant to D.C. law. I am a registered Doctor
   of Naturopathy, but I am not a licensed medical doctor and therefore do not
   practice &#8220;the application of scientific principles to prevent, diagnose
   and treat physical and mental diseases, disorders, and conditions and to
   safeguard the life and health of any woman and infant through pregnancy and
   parturition.&#8221;
   
   
   
   An identical notice, in printing of a size to be easily readable, shall be
   posted in a prominent place in each office or location of practice.

   5003.3. A person registered to practice naturopathy or naturopathic healing
   under this chapter may counsel individuals and treat human conditions through
   the use of &#8220;naturally occurring substances&#8221;, forces and agencies
   as defined herein.

   5003.4. It shall be unlawful for a naturopath practicing in the District of
   Columbia to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Falsely lead any person to believe he or she practices medicine as defined
   in the Act.
   
   
   
   (b)	Use x-rays, perform surgical procedures, inject any substance into another
   person by needle, or perform any invasive procedure on another person;
   
   
   
   (c)	Deliver infants;
   
   
   
   (d)	Prescribe for or provide to another person any drug, substance or device
   regulated by the laws of the District or Federal governments or available by
   prescription only; or
   
   
   
   (e)	File birth or death certificates or sign claims or authorization for
   payment of workers’ compensation benefits, Medicare or Medicaid benefits, or
   benefits provided for health care through other publicly assisted programs.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 6129 (August 14, 1992).
