                                  DC REGULATIONS

GRIEVANCES (ยง 7-807)

807.1. If a participant is terminated from an employment and training program
   that is covered under the Act and he or she disagrees with the cause of
   termination, the participant may submit a grievance complaint to the Director
   after having exhausted the procedures established by the training provider and
   in accordance with Departmental policies on grievances.

   807.2. The Director shall, upon request, provide for a hearing within twenty
   (20) days after the filing of the grievance complaint. The hearing procedures
   shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Written notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing, a description
   of the manner in which it will be conducted, and the issue(s) to be decided;
   
   
   
   (b)	Opportunity to be accompanied by a representative;
   
   
   
   (c)	Opportunity to bring witnesses and documentary evidence;
   
   
   
   (d)	Opportunity to have relevant documents produced by the Training and
   Retraining for Employment Program or its components;
   
   
   
   (e)	Opportunity to question witnesses;
   
   
   
   (f)	The right to an impartial Hearing Officer selected by the Director; and
   
   
   
   (g)	A written decision which shall include a summary of facts, the reason(s)
   for the decision, and a statement of remedies to be applied.

   807.3. Appeals from decisions of the Hearing Officer may be filed with the
   Director

   807.4. If the Director, Hearing or Investigation Officer determines that a
   complaint, an investigation, or testimony involves criminal activity which may
   violate the laws of the District of Columbia, the United States or other
   jurisdiction, this determination shall be communicated directly to the
   appropriate law enforcement agency for action.

   807.5. Records of all hearings and request for hearings shall be maintained in
   the Office of the Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 6950, 6951 (November
   2, 1990).
