                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOMINATING PETITIONS (§ 3-1401)

1401.1. Each nominating petition circulated for signatures shall contain:
   
   
   
   (a)	The full name and state of residence of the presidential candidate;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name, address, and telephone number of the person circulating the
   petition; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement that all of the signatories to the petition shall be of the
   same political party as the nominee.

   1401.2. If the plan submitted by the party provides that convention delegates
   and alternates are to be listed on the ballot or on a separate reference sheet
   provided to the voter with the ballot, each nominating petition shall also
   list the name, address, voter registration number, and office sought by each
   candidate for convention delegate or alternate.

   1401.3. If the petition is used to nominate an uncommitted delegation pursuant
   to the party plan, the word &#8220;uncommitted&#8221; shall be placed on the
   petition in the space provided for the presidential candidate’s name and
   state of residence.

   1401.4. In order to circulate petitions pursuant to this chapter, a person
   shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be at least 18 years of age;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be a citizen of the United States;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not be incarcerated for a crime that is a felony in the District;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not have been found by a court of law to be legally incompetent to vote; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Either be a resident in the District of Columbia or, if not a resident in the
   District of Columbia, have registered as a non-resident petition circulator
   prior to circulating a petition in accordance with Sections 1401.5 and 1401.6.

   1401.5. Each petition circulator who is not a resident of the District of
   Columbia shall, prior to circulating a petition under this chapter, complete
   and file with the Board a  Non-Resident Petition Circulator Registration Form
   in which he or she:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provides the name of (and office sought by) the candidate or ballot measure in
   support of which he or she will circulate the petition;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provides his or her name, residential address, telephone number, and email
   address;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Swears or affirms that he or she, while not a resident of the District of
   Columbia, is otherwise eligible to vote in the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Acknowledges that he or she has received from the Board information regarding 
   the rules and regulations governing the applicable petition circulation
   process, and that he or she will adhere to such rules and regulations;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Consents to submit to the Board’s subpoena power and to the jurisdiction of
   the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the enforcement of Board
   subpoenas.

   1401.6. Each non-resident petition circulator shall present proof of residence
   to the Board at the time he or she files the Non-Resident Petition Circulator
   Registration Form.  Valid proof of residence is any official document showing
   the circulator’s name and residence address.  Acceptable forms of proof of
   residence include:
   
   
   
   (a)  	A copy of a current and valid government-issued photo identification;
   
   
   
   (b)  	A copy of a current utility bill, bank statement, government check,
   paycheck;
   
   
   
   (c)  	A copy of a government-issued document; or
   
   
   
   (d)  	A copy of any other official document, including leases or residential
   rental agreements, occupancy statements from homeless shelters, or tuition or
   housing bills from colleges or universities.

   1401.7. Each circulator of a petition sheet shall swear or affirm under oath:
   
   
   
   (a)	That he or she has personally circulated the petition;
   
   
   
   (b)	That he or she has personally witnessed the signing of each signature on
   the petition;
   
   
   
   (c)	That he or she is responsible for the contents of the petition sheet, and
   that according to the best information available to the circulator, each
   signer is a registered, qualified elector of the same party as the candidate;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	That he or she meets the petition circulator requirements set forth in §
   1401.4.

   1401.8. Signatures appearing on a nominating petition sheet shall not be
   counted as valid unless all required information is provided by the circulator
   in his or her affidavit.

   1401.9. The individual who files the petition shall execute an affidavit
   attesting that to the best of his or her knowledge and belief that the
   petition being filed is complete and contains the legally required number of
   valid signatures.

   1401.10. If the plan submitted by the party provides that convention delegates
   and alternates are to be listed on the ballot or on a separate reference sheet
   provided to the voter with the ballot, each candidate for convention
   delegate/alternate shall file a Declaration of Candidacy with the Board no
   later than the deadline for filing the petition, under Chapter 6 of this
   title.

   1401.11. A candidate for convention delegate/alternate shall attest, inter
   alia, that he or she was properly selected, according to the rules of his or
   her political party.

   1401.12. The Board may refuse to accept nominating petitions of individuals
   who fail to submit the declaration of proper selection required by § 1401.9.

   1401.13. No nominating petition shall be issued by the Board unless the name
   of the presidential candidate is included in all appropriate spaces on the
   petition.

   1401.14. If the party plan provides that convention delegates and alternates
   are to be listed on the ballot or on a separate reference sheet provided to
   the voter with the ballot, no nominating petition shall be issued by the Board
   unless the names of each candidate for delegate/alternate are provided in all
   appropriate spaces on the petition.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 1350-51 (March 15, 1996); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 5582 (April 12, 2013).
