                                  DC REGULATIONS

DISPUTES (§ 19-2822)

2822.1. For purposes of this section, a “claim” means a written demand or
   written assertion by one of the contracting parties seeking as a matter of
   right, the payment of money in a sum certain, the adjustment or interpretation
   of contract terms, or other relief arising under or relating to a contract.

   2822.2. A claim arising under a contract, unlike a claim relating to that
   contract, is a claim that can be resolved under a contract clause that
   provides for the relief sought by the claimant.  However, a written demand or
   written assertion by the contractor seeking the payment of money exceeding
   fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) is not a claim under this chapter until
   certified as required by subsection 2815.3

   2822.3. A voucher, invoice, or other routine request for payment that is not
   in dispute when submitted is not a claim under this chapter. The submission
   may be converted to a claim under this chapter by complying with the
   submission and certification requirements of this section, if it is disputed
   either as to liability or amount or is not acted upon in a reasonable time.

   2822.4. A claim by the contractor shall be made in writing and submitted
   initially to the contracting officer for a written decision. The contracting
   officer shall hold informal discussions with the contractor and appropriate
   Board staff to resolve contract disputes. A claim by the Board against the
   contractor shall be subject to a written decision by the CCO.

   2822.5. For contractor claims exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), the
   contractor shall submit with the claim a certification that:
   
   
   
   (a)	The claim is made in good faith;
   
   
   
   (b)	Supporting data are accurate and complete to the best of the
   contractor’s knowledge and belief; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The amount requested accurately reflects the contract adjustment for which
   the contractor believes the Board is liable.

   2822.6. If the contractor is an individual, the certification shall be
   executed by that individual.  If the contractor is not an individual, the
   certification shall be executed by a senior company official in charge at the
   contractor’s plant or location involved, or an officer or general partner of
   the contractor having overall responsibility for the conduct of the
   contractor’s affairs.

   2822.7. When a claim by or against a contractor cannot be satisfied or settled
   by mutual agreement and a decision on the claim is necessary, the CCO shall
   prepare a written decision within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of the
   contractor’s claim.

   2822.8. The contractor may request reconsideration from the General Manager
   within fifteen (15) calendar days from receipt of the decision of the CCO.

   2822.9. The General Manager shall conduct an informal hearing and issue a
   determination for claims of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or less within
   thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of the contractor’s request for
   reconsideration.

   2822.10. For claims over fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), the General Manager
   shall conduct an informal hearing and issue a determination thirty (30) days
   after receiving a request for reconsideration.  Provided, that if a decision
   will not be issued within thirty (30) calendar days, the Board notifies the
   contractor, within that period of time within which a decision will be issued.

   2822.11. The General Manager’s decision shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Description of the claim or dispute;
   
   
   
   (b)	Reference to the pertinent contract terms;
   
   
   
   (c)	Statement of factual areas of agreement or disagreement;
   
   
   
   (d)	Statement of the General Manager’s decision, with supporting rationale;
   and
   
   
   
   (e)	Statement of the procedure for filling appeals with the Contract Appeals
   Board.

   2822.12. Any failure of the Board to issue a decision within the specified
   time periods shall be deemed a decision by the Board denying the claim and
   will authorize the claimant to file an appeal with the CAB.

   2822.13. A claimant may appeal the General Manager’s decision only to the
   CAB. Any appeal to the CAB shall be filed with the CAB within ninety (90) days
   from the date a decision is issued by the General Manager.

   2822.14. The proceeding before the CAB shall be final, subject to judicial
   review in accordance with D.C. Code §§ 1-1189.5 and 1-1510. Any prior
   determinations by the Board (the CCO or the General Manager) shall not be
   final or conclusive or subject to judicial review.

   2822.15. Pending final resolution of the dispute, the contractor shall comply
   with any decision of the Board and proceed diligently with performance of the
   contract, except to the extent where such work was terminated.

   2822.16. The Board shall be responsible for payment of interest on claims
   decided in the contractor’s favor.  Interest accrues from the date the Board
   receives the claim until payment is made.  Interest shall accrue at the rate
   established by the District of Columbia Council pursuant to D. C. Code §
   28-3302, as amended.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 4081, 4107-09 (June 22, 1990).
