                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACT COST PRINCIPLES (§ 19-2817)

2817.1. The contract cost principles shall be used in the pricing of
   fixed-price contracts, subcontracts, and modifications to contracts and
   subcontracts whenever cost analysis is performed, or a contract clause
   requires the determination or negotiation, or allowance of costs.

   2817.2. The contract cost principles shall be mandatory and incorporated by
   reference in contracts as the basis for the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Determining reimbursable costs under cost-reimbursement contracts and
   cost- reimbursement subcontracts, and the cost-reimbursement portion of
   time-and-materials contracts, except when material is priced on a basis other
   than at cost;
   
   
   
   (b)	Negotiating indirect cost rates;
   
   
   
   (c)	Proposing, negotiating, or determining costs under terminated contracts;
   
   
   
   (d)	Price revision of fixed-price incentive contracts;
   
   
   
   (e)	Price redetermination of price redetermination contracts; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Pricing changes and other contract modifications.

   2817.3. The factors to be considered in determining whether a cost is
   allowable shall include, but not be limited to, reasonableness, allocability,
   allowability, and the terms of the contract.

   2817.4. A cost shall be reasonable if, in its nature and amount, it does not
   exceed that which would be incurred by a prudent person in the conduct of
   competitive business.

   2817.5. A cost shall be allocable to a contract if it is assignable or
   chargeable to one or more cost objectives on the basis of relative benefits
   received or other equitable relationship.

   2817.6. The following shall be a treatment of specific non-allowable cost
   categories:
   
   
   
   (a)	Bad debt, penalties and fines, and contingency costs;
   
   
   
   (b)	Depreciation and use allowances made for fully depreciated assets;
   
   
   
   (c)	Advertising costs and entertainment costs, unless incurred as a direct
   result of compliance with specific provisions of the contract or written
   instructions of the contracting officer;
   
   
   
   (d)	Gifts, contributions, and donations (reasonable costs for the morale,
   health, welfare, food, services, or lodging of contractor’s employees are
   not gifts and shall be allowable); and
   
   
   
   (e)	Interest expenses incurred by contractors cost unless stated otherwise in
   the terms and conditions of the solicitation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 4081, 4100-02 (June 22, 1990).
