                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEBARMENT OR SUSPENSION (§ 19-2824)

2824.1. A contractor shall be debarred or suspended from being awarded any
   Board contracts if the principal, or in the case of a corporation, any of its
   officers, directors, or shareholders holding a substantial interest, or in the
   case of a partnership, any of its partners, meets the following criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	Convicted for commission of a criminal offense arising from or incident to
   obtaining or attempting to obtain a private contract;
   
   
   
   (b)	Convicted under District or federal statutes of embezzlement, theft,
   forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, receiving stolen
   property, or any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or
   business honesty which directly affects responsibility as a Board contractor;
   
   
   
   (c)	Convicted under District or federal antitrust statutes arising out of the
   submission of offers;
   
   
   
   (d)	Found by the CCO to be in violation of contract provisions of a character
   which is regarded by the CCO to be so serious as to justify debarment action;
   
   
   
   (e)	Engaging in business activities which are contrary to the laws, rules, or
   regulations of the Government of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (f)	In violation of the ethical standards stated in section 2824; or
   
   
   
   (g)	Determined by the CCO in writing to have committed a breach in
   professional ethical conduct of such a serious and compelling nature so as to
   affect responsibility as a Board contractor.

   2824.2. A contractor or prospective contractor who has been notified of a
   proposed debarment action may request in writing that a hearing be held. The
   contractor’s or prospective contractor’s written request shall be
   delivered by certified mail to the CCO within ten (10) days of receipt by the
   contractor or prospective contractor of notice of the proposed action.

   2824.3. The CCO shall prepare a summary report of the proposed debarment
   action for the review of the General Manager. The General Manager shall hold a
   hearing within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the contractor’s or
   prospective contractor’s request for a hearing.

   2824.4. After consultation with the Corporation Counsel, the General Manager
   shall issue a final decision within twenty (20) days of the hearing.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 4081, 4110-11 (June 22, 1990).
