                                  DC REGULATIONS

SOLE SOURCE PROCUREMENTS (§ 19-2805)

2805.1. The Commission may award sole source contracts where there is a
   reasonable basis to conclude that the Commission’s needs can only be
   satisfied by the goods, services, or construction proposed to be procured and
   when the proposed sole source contract is the only source capable of providing
   the required goods, services, or construction.

   2805.2. A reasonable basis sufficient to justify sole source contracts may
   include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Goods and materials needed for standardization purposes;
   
   
   
   (b)	 Replacement parts or equipment; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Goods or services which are unique to the needs of the Commission and are
   not otherwise available.

   2805.3. Sole source procurements shall not be justified solely on the basis of
   any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Lack of time, unless there is a legitimate emergency or when the delays
   have been determined by the Commission to be excusable;
   
   
   
   (b)	The desire for a particular brand name when others of equal nature are
   available; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Convenience alone.

   2805.4. The CCO shall take all reasonable steps to avoid using sole source
   procurements.

   2805.5. For each sole source procurement, the CCO shall be required to provide
   the Board of Directors with a prior written determination that the minimum
   needs of the Commission can only be met by the goods, services or construction
   sought to be procured on a sole source basis and that the proposed sole source
   is the only source capable of providing same.

   2805.6. The CCO’s written determination shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the Commission’s requirement, including estimated cost;
   
   
   
   (b)	An explanation of the unique nature of the procurement;
   
   
   
   (c)	An explanation of the contractor’s unique qualifications;
   
   
   
   (d)	A determination that the costs to Commission will be fair and reasonable;
   and
   
   
   
   (e)	A description of the market survey conducted, list of potential sources
   contacted, or an explanation for why such a survey or list was not possible.

   2805.7. The CCO shall include all applicable standard contract clauses in any
   procurement made under this section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 7420, 7427-28 (October 9, 1998).
