                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 19-2826)

2826.1. For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases
   shall have the meaning ascribed:
   
   
   
   Acceptance &#8211; the act of an authorized representative of the Board by
   which the Board, for itself or as an agent of another, assumes ownership of
   existing identified supplies or approves specific services as partial or
   complete performance of the contract.
   
   
   
   Advertising costs &#8211; costs incurred in using any advertising media when
   the advertiser has control over the form and content of what will appear, the
   media in which it will appear, or when it will appear.
   
   
   
   Bad debts &#8211; losses arising from uncollectible accounts and other claims,
   such as dishonored checks, uncollected employee advances, and related
   collection and legal costs.
   
   
   
   Commercial Items &#8211; supplies or services regularly used for other than
   Board purposes and sold or traded to the general public in the course of
   normal business operations.
   
   
   
   Contingency costs &#8211; contributions to a reserve account for unforeseen
   costs.
   
   
   
   Cost-reimbursement contract &#8211; a contract which provides for payment to
   the contractor of allowable costs incurred in the performance of the contract
   as determined in accordance with the Board’s Cost Principles as stated in
   subsection 2817. This type of contract establishes, at the outset, an
   estimated cost for the performance of the contract and a dollar ceiling which
   the contractor may not exceed, except at its own expense without prior
   approval or subsequent ratification by the contracting officer.
   
   
   
   Depreciation and use allowances made for fully depreciated assets &#8211;
   accounting treatments to compensate contractors for the use of buildings,
   capital improvements, and equipment.
   
   
   
   Entertainment costs &#8211; costs of meals, beverages, lodging,
   transportation, and gratuities which are incurred incident to the performance
   of any contract awarded under these regulations.
   
   
   
   Established catalog price &#8211; a catalog, price list, schedule, or other
   verifiable and established record maintained by the manufacturer or vendor. 
   The record must be published or otherwise available for customer inspection
   and state current or last sales price.
   
   
   
   Established market price &#8211; current prices that are established in the
   course of ordinary and usual trade between buyers and sellers free to bargain
   and can be substantiated by data from sources independent of the manufacturer
   or vendor.
   
   
   
   Filed &#8211; where used in these regulations refers to the date and time of
   receipt by the appropriate Board employee.
   
   
   
   Fines and penalties &#8211; all costs incurred as the result of violations of,
   or failure to comply with, federal, state, and local laws and regulations.
   
   
   
   Fixed-price contract &#8211; a contract which places responsibility on the
   contractor for the delivery of the product or the complete performance of the
   services or construction in accordance with the contract terms at a price that
   may be firm or may be subject to contractually specified adjustments.
   
   
   
   Formal solicitation &#8211; a written request by the Board for
   services/supplies submitted as a request for proposals (RFP), through
   competitive sealed proposals procedures, or invitation for bids (IFB), through
   competitive sealed bidding procedures.
   
   
   
   Gift &#8211; a property transferred to another person without the other person
   providing in return consideration of equivalent value.
   
   
   
   Inspection &#8211; the examination and testing of supplies or services
   (including, when appropriate, raw materials, components, and intermediate
   assemblies) to determine whether they conform to contract requirements and
   specifications.
   
   
   
   Interested party &#8211; means any actual or prospective bidder, offeror, or
   contractor whose direct economic interest would be affected by the award of or
   failure to award a particular contract.
   
   
   
   Loss &#8211; the excess of costs over income earned over a particular
   contract.  Losses may include both direct and indirect costs.
   
   
   
   Multi-step sealed bidding &#8211; a two-phase process consisting of a
   technical phase  in which bidders submit unpriced technical offers to be
   evaluated by the Board.  In the second phase, price bids are considered for
   those bidders whose technical offers have been determined acceptable in the
   first phase.
   
   
   
   Offer &#8211; A response from an offeror to provide specific supplies or
   services in accordance with the terms and conditions contained in the
   Invitation for Bids or Request for Proposals issued by the bidding or
   competitive sealed proposals.
   
   
   
   Offeror &#8211; any individual, company, firm, corporation, partnership or
   other organization submitting a bid or proposal in response to an Invitation
   for Bids or Request for Proposals issued by the Board when procurement is by
   competitive sealed bidding or competitive sealed proposals.
   
   
   
   Protest &#8211; means a written objection by an interested party to a
   solicitation by the Board for offers for a proposed contract for the
   acquisition of supplies or services or a written objection by an interested
   party to a proposed award or the award of such a contract.
   
   
   
   Ratification &#8211; the act of approving an unauthorized commitment by a
   contracting officer.
   
   
   
   Unauthorized commitment &#8211; an agreement that is not binding solely
   because the Board representative who made it lacked the authority to enter
   into that agreement on behalf of the Board.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 4081, 4111-12 (June 22, 1990).
