                                  DC REGULATIONS

CANCELLATION OF SOLICITATIONS (§ 19-2811)

2811.1. Prior to the date and time set for opening the bids or proposals, a
   solicitation may be canceled in whole or in part when the CCO determines in
   writing that such action is in the Board’s best interest for reasons
   including, but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Board no longer requires the supplies, services, or construction;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Board no longer can reasonably expect to fund the procurement; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Proposed amendments to the solicitation would be of such magnitude that a
   new solicitation is desirable.

   2811.2. When a solicitation is canceled under subsection 2810.1, notice of
   cancellation shall be sent to all businesses solicited.  The notice of
   cancellation shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Identify the solicitation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Briefly explain the reason for cancellation; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Where appropriate, explain that an opportunity will be given to compete on
   any resolicitation or any future procurements of similar supplies, services,
   or construction.

   2811.3. All bids or proposals may be rejected in whole or in part when the CCO
   determines in writing that the action is in the best interest of the Board. 
   Every effort shall be made to anticipate changes in a requirement before the
   date of opening and to notify all prospective offerors of any resulting
   modification or cancellation to permit offerors to change their offers and
   prevent unnecessary exposure of bid or proposal prices.

   2811.4. Reasons for rejection of bids or proposals may include, but are not
   limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The supplies, services, or construction being procured are no longer
   required;
   
   
   
   (b)	Ambiguous or otherwise inadequate specifications were part of the
   solicitation;
   
   
   
   (c)	The solicitation did not provide for consideration of all factors of
   significance to the Board;
   
   
   
   (d)	Prices exceed available funds and it would not be appropriate to adjust
   quantities to come within available funds;
   
   
   
   (e)	The bids or proposals fail to meet the requirements and specifications
   stated in the IFB or RFP;
   
   
   
   (f)	All otherwise acceptable bids or proposals received are at clearly
   unreasonable prices, or only one (1) offer is received and the contracting
   officer cannot determine the reasonableness of the offer price, or no offer
   has been received from a responsible offeror;
   
   
   
   (g)	Offers received indicate that the needs of the Board can be satisfied by a
   less expensive article or service than that requested in the solicitation; or
   
   (h)	There is reason to believe that the bids or proposals may not have been
   independently arrived at in open competition, may have been collusive, or may
   have been submitted in bad faith.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 4081, 4092-94 (June 22, 1990).
