                                  DC REGULATIONS

COST OR PRICING DATA AND PRICE ANALYSIS (§ 19-2816)

2816.1. The contracting officer shall require offerors to submit a
   certification of current cost or pricing data for each solicitation. However,
   submission of actual cost or pricing data shall not be required when a
   contracting officer determines that prices are as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Based on adequate price competition;
   
   
   
   (b)	Based on established catalog or market prices of commercial items sold in
   substantial quantities to the general public; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Set by law or regulation.

   2816.2. Price competition shall be considered to exist when two (2) or more
   responsible offerors make a responsive offer to a solicitation issued by the
   Board, and they compete independently for a contract to be awarded to the
   offeror with the lowest evaluated price. If price competition exists, the
   contracting officer may presume it is adequate unless:
   
   
   
   (a)	The solicitation is made under conditions that unreasonably deny to one or
   more known and qualified offerors an opportunity to compete;
   
   
   
   (b)	The low offeror has such a decided advantage that it is practically immune
   from competition; or
   
   
   
   (c)	There is a finding, supported by a statement of the facts and approved by
   the CCO, that the lowest price is unreasonable.

   2816.3. Except as provided above in subsection 2815.1, certified cost or
   pricing data are required before accomplishing any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The award of any negotiated contract expected to exceed one hundred
   thousand dollars ($100,000);
   
   
   
   (b)	The modification of any sealed bid or negotiated contract (whether or not
   cost or pricing data were initially required) when the modification involves a
   price adjustment expected to exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000).
   This requirement shall not apply when unrelated and separately priced changes
   for which cost or pricing data would not otherwise be required are included
   for administrative convenience in the same modification;
   
   
   
   (c)	The award of a subcontract at any tier, if the contractor and each higher
   tier subcontractor have been required to furnish certified cost or pricing
   data, when the subcontract is expected to exceed one hundred thousand dollars
   ($100,000); or
   
   
   
   (d)	The modification of any subcontract covered by subparagraph (c) when the
   price adjustment is expected to exceed one hundred thousand dollars
   ($100,000).

   2816.4. If certified cost or pricing data are needed for pricing actions over
   twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) and not in excess of one hundred
   thousand dollars ($100,000), certified cost or pricing data may be obtained.

   2816.5. When certified cost or pricing data are required, the contracting
   officer shall require the contractor or prospective contractor to submit the
   following in support of any offer:
   
   
   
   (a)	The cost or pricing data; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A certificate of current cost or pricing data certifying that to the best
   of its knowledge and belief, the cost or pricing data were accurate, complete,
   and current as of the date of final agreement on price.
   
   
   
   	EDITOR’S NOTE: The following correction was made to subsection 2816.5:
   “contracting officer” was substituted for “contract officer”.

   2816.6. When cost or pricing data are required, the contracting officer shall
   make a cost analysis to evaluate the reasonableness of individual cost
   elements.  In addition, the contracting officer shall make a price analysis to
   ensure that the overall price offered is fair and reasonable.

   2816.7. When required, the contracting officer shall evaluate the separate
   cost elements and proposed profit of the offeror’s or contractor’s cost or
   pricing data, and the judgmental factors applied in projecting from the data
   to the estimated costs, in order to form an opinion on the degree to which the
   proposed costs represent what the contract should cost, assuming reasonable
   economy and efficiency.

   2816.8. When appropriate, the contracting officer shall use the techniques and
   procedures outlined in this subsection in performing cost analysis:
   
   
   
   (a)	Verification of cost or pricing data and evaluation of cost elements;
   
   
   
   (b)	Evaluation of the effect of the offeror’s current practices on future
   costs;
   
   
   
   (c)	Comparison of costs proposed by the offeror for individual cost elements
   with actual costs previously incurred by the same offeror or other cost
   estimates;
   
   
   
   (d)	Verification that the offeror’s cost submissions are in accordance with
   the contract principles stated in section 2817; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Review to determine whether any cost or pricing data necessary to make the
   contractor’s offeror accurate, complete, and current have not been either
   submitted or identified in writing by the contractor.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 4081, 4098-4100 (June 22, 1990).
