                                  DC REGULATIONS

PURCHASE ORDERS (§ 19-2802)

2802.1. A purchase order is an offer by the Commission to buy goods and
   services upon specified terms and conditions, the aggregate amount of which
   does not exceed $25,000.  Unless otherwise duly delegated, purchase orders
   must be signed by the CCO.

   2802.2. Except as otherwise provided in this section, purchase orders shall be
   issued on a fixed-priced basis, exclusive of economic price adjustments or
   redetermination provisions.

   2802.3. Purchase orders shall be issued on a form prescribed by the CCO and
   shall specify the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The total quantity of goods or a description of the service ordered;
   
   
   
   (b)	The total dollar amount, including any and all discounts; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The delivery date.

   2802.4. The CCO may designate appropriate employees of the Commission to
   initiate purchase orders by unpriced purchase order, or requisition.  All such
   unpriced purchase orders, or requisitions, shall specify as much of the
   information required by section 2802.3 as practicable and shall be subject to
   approval by designated supervisory personnel.

   2802.5. With the written approval of the CCO, blanket purchase orders may be
   employed to fill anticipated, recurring needs where there is a wide variety of
   items in a broad class of goods that are generally purchased, but the exact
   items, quantities, and delivery requirements are not known in advance and may
   vary considerably.

   2802.6. All blanket purchase orders shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement that the supplier will furnish goods or services, described in
   general terms, if and when requested during a specified period of time and
   within a stipulated total dollar amount;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement that the Commission is obligated only to the extent of the
   authorized purchases made pursuant to the order; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement that the prices to the Commission shall be as low or lower
   than those charged to the supplier’s most favored customer for comparable
   quantities under similar terms and conditions, in addition to any applicable
   discounts.

   2802.7. A blanket purchase order shall terminate whenever:
   
   
   
   (a)	The purchases thereunder equal the total dollar limitation;
   
   
   
   (b)	The stated quantity limitation has been supplied;
   
   
   
   (c)	The stated term of the order expires; or
   
   
   
   (d)	At any time the CCO, or his/her delegate, determines that termination is
   in the best interests of the Commission.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 7420, 7421-22 (October 9, 1998).
