                                  DC REGULATIONS

FORMAL SOLICITATIONS (§ 19-2804)

2804.1. Competitive bidding shall be required as herein provided whenever a
   contract for goods or services is reasonably expected to exceed the sum of
   $100,000.

   2804.2. As used herein, the term “competitive bidding” shall mean the
   employment of such procedures, requirements and techniques as will result in
   fair and reasonable competition among suppliers, equality of opportunity,
   optimal pricing and quality, and maximization of the best interests of the
   Commission.

   2804.3. Any or all bidders or potential bidders may be required to submit a
   statement of their qualifications, experience in performing work or
   manufacturing or supplying the relevant goods, services or products, and a
   detailed financial statement. Failure to submit same when required and in a
   timely manner may be grounds for a disqualification of the bidder.

   2804.4. The Commission shall have the right to take such steps as it deems
   necessary to determine the ability of the bidder to perform bidder’s
   obligations under the contract and the bidder shall furnish the Commission all
   such information and data for this purpose as it may request.

   2804.5. The Commission may consider the following factors in determining the
   qualifications of a prospective bidder:
   
   
   
   (a)	The ability and capacity of the bidder to provide the materials, goods or
   services in accordance with the specifications;
   
   
   
   (b)	The integrity, character, and reputation of the bidder;
   
   
   
   (c)	The competence and experience of the bidder; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The bidder’s compliance with other provisions and policies contained
   herein and in the bid
   
   documents.

   2804.6. The Commission reserves the right to reject any bids, or any
   prospective bidder, where an investigation of the available evidence or
   information does not satisfy the Commission that the bidder is qualified to
   properly perform the terms of the contract and bid documents.

   2804.7. Prior to any solicitation for bids, the Commission may conduct
   meetings with, and collect data from, one or more prospective bidders for the
   purpose of developing necessary plans and/or specifications. The Commission
   may also solicit proposals for the purpose of determining the best qualified
   bidders for a particular procurement or project. Any part or all of such
   proposals may be used in formulating final plans and specifications.

   2804.8. Bids may be solicited by invitation, advertisement or both. The
   Commission shall determine the solicitation method and procedures to be
   employed, giving due regard to the promotion of sufficient competition to
   secure the best terms for the Commission. If advertising is utilized, notices
   shall be published in the DC Procurement Digest, a major newspaper of local
   circulation, or both.

   2804.9. Any agreement, combination or collusion among bidders or prospective
   bidders in restraint of competition by agreement to bid a fixed price, or
   otherwise, shall render the bids of those bidders void. Any or all bidders may
   be required to submit a sworn statement that they have not been a party to
   such activity.

   2804.10. Bidders and sub-bidders requiring clarification or interpretation of
   the bidding documents shall make a written request which shall reach the CCO
   at least seven days prior to the date for receipt of bids. Any modifications
   shall be issued by written addendum to all bidders.

   2804.11. No substitution will be considered prior to receipt of bids unless
   written request for approval has been received by the CCO at least ten days
   prior to the date for receipt of bids. Such requests shall include the name of
   the material or equipment for which it is to be substituted and a complete
   description of the proposed substitution including drawings, performance and
   test data, and other information necessary for an evaluation. A statement
   setting forth changes in other materials, equipment or other portions of the
   work including changes in the work of other contracts that incorporation of
   the proposed substitution would require shall be included.

   2804.12. The burden of proof of the merit of the proposed substitution is upon
   the proposer. The CCO’s decision of approval or disapproval of a proposed
   substitution shall be final.

   2804.13. If the Commission approves a proposed substitution prior to receipt
   of bids, such approval will be set forth in an addendum.  Bidders shall not
   rely upon approvals made in any other manner.

   2804.14. Bids shall be submitted on forms identical to the form, if any,
   included with the bid documents.

   2804.15. A bid may not be modified, withdrawn or canceled by the bidder during
   the stipulated time period following the time and date designated for the
   receipt of bids, and each bidder so agrees in submitting a bid.

   2804.16. All bids shall be delivered on time, at the place designated in the
   bid documents, in a sealed container clearly marked “Bid” or
   “Proposal”. They shall remain sealed until publicly opened at the time
   specified in the invitation.

   2804.17. The Commission shall have the right to waive informalities or
   irregularities in a bid.

   2804.18. Following the opening of bids, the Commission may seek or investigate
   clarifications, interpretations or additional facts which are reasonably
   necessary in order to evaluate the bids.

   2804.19. Contracts will be awarded to the lowest, most responsible bidder,
   whose proposal most favorably serves the best interests of the Commission,
   taking into consideration all of the relevant factors, as well as those that
   may be unique to the subject procurement.

   2804.20. In determining the lowest, most responsible bidder, the Commission
   may consider any and all factors it deems relevant and most advantageous,
   including, without limitation, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any basic, supplemental or conditional discounting opportunities, or terms
   of payment;
   
   
   
   (b)	Length of agreement and any most favored pricing provisions, price
   guarantees, protections, caps, or renewal provisions;
   
   
   
   (c)	Costs and other economic concerns of delivery or warehousing;
   
   
   
   (d)	Servicing, maintenance and replacement factors;
   
   
   
   (e)	Warranty and guarantee provisions;
   
   
   
   (f)	Return of goods policies;
   
   
   
   (g)	Time and scheduling factors;
   
   
   
   (h)	Any applicable laws and other provisions of the bid documents;
   
   
   
   (i)	The relative experience and competence of the bidder;
   
   
   
   (j)	Material compliance with bid specifications and instructions; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Compliance with applicable laws.

   2804.21. The Commission may reject any or all bids where:
   
   
   
   (a)	The bidder(s) is/are not deemed qualified;
   
   
   
   (b)	The bid(s) is/are not responsive;
   
   
   
   (c)	All bids fail to meet the Commission’s contract and pricing expectations
   and objectives; or
   
   
   
   (d)	The interests of the Commission would be otherwise served by such action.

   2804.22. If a bid is otherwise responsive, but a mistake is discovered or
   alleged prior to award of the contract, it may be corrected if the Commission
   determines that it was either apparent from the face of the bid or that the
   bidder has submitted clear and convincing evidence that a mistake was made and
   should be corrected.

   2804.23. If a successful bidder’s mistake is not discovered until after the
   award, the Commission may:
   
   
   
   (a)	Amend the contract if the correction would be favorable to the Commission;
   
   
   
   (b)	Reform the contract if the bidder would remain lowest and best; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Make no changes and enforce the contract.

   2804.24. In the event that adequate specifications are not obtainable or that
   the nature of the procurement does not lend itself to structured bidding, the
   Commission may determine that it will accept proposals for furnishing the
   goods or services.

   2804.25. If required by the bid documents, or in order to be duly qualified,
   bidders shall furnish satisfactory bid, performance, or payment bonds. 
   Bidders shall also, if required, furnish satisfactory evidence of any
   appropriate insurance coverage, including medical or worker’s compensation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 7420, 7423-27 (October 9, 1998).
