                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICABILITY-COVERED EMPLOYERS-JOINT EMPLOYMENT (§ 4-1602)

1602.1. Where two (2) or more businesses exercise some control over the work
   or working conditions of the employee, the businesses may be considered joint
   employers under the DCFMLA.  Joint employers may be separate and distinct
   entities with separate owners, managers, and facilities.

   1602.2. Where the employee performs work which simultaneously benefits two (2)
   or more employers, or works for two (2) or more employers at different times
   during the workweek, a joint employment relationship generally will be
   considered to exist in situations such as:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Where there is an arrangement between employers to share an
   
   	employee’s services or to interchange employees;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Where one (1) employer acts directly or indirectly in the interest of
   
   	the other employer in relation to the employee; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Where the employers are not completely disassociated with respect
   
   	to the employee’s employment and may be deemed to share control of the
   employee, directly or indirectly, because one (1) employer controls, is
   controlled by, or is under the common control of the other employer (for
   example, a temporary agency employer).
   
   
   
   Joint employment will ordinarily be found to exist when a temporary placement
   agency supplies employees to a second employer.

   1602.3. A determination of whether or not a joint employment relationship
   exists is not determined by the application of any single criterion, but
   rather the entire relationship viewed in the totality.

   1602.4. In joint employment relationships, only the primary employer is
   					responsible for giving the required notices to its employees, providing
   				DCFMLA leave, and maintenance of health benefits.

   1602.5. Factors considered in determining which is the primary employer
   include authority or responsibility to hire and fire, assign, or place the
   employee, make payroll, and provide employment benefits. For employees of
   temporary placement agencies, for example, the placement agency most commonly
   would be the primary employer.

   1602.6. Employees jointly employed by two (2) employers shall be counted by
   both employers, whether or not the employee is maintained on only one (1) of
   the employers’ payrolls, in determining coverage and employee eligibility.

   1602.7. Job restoration is the primary responsibility of the primary employer.

   1602.8. The secondary employer is responsible for accepting the employee
   returning from DCFMLA leave in place of the replacement employee if the
   secondary employer continues to utilize an employee from the primary employer,
   and the primary employer chooses to place the employee with the secondary
   employer.

   1602.9. The secondary employer is also subject to § 1621 with respect to its
   joint employees, whether or not the secondary employer is covered by DCFMLA.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 38 DCR 4350, 4351 (July 12, 1991); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10788, 10790
   (November 19, 2010).
