                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATION AND EMPLOYER RECORDKEEPING (§ 4-1617)

1617.1. All District government agencies shall designate an FMLA Coordinator
   for the agency. The FMLA Coordinator may be the individual designated as the
   Human Resource Specialist for the agency.

   1617.2. All private employers are encouraged to designate an FMLA Coordinator
   or a specific person to administer DCFMLA and the federal FMLA.

   1617.3. An FMLA Coordinator shall be knowledgeable of the requirements in
   order to ensure proper handling and processing of all FMLA requests.

   1617.4. The FMLA Coordinator of a District of Columbia government agency, or
   the FMLA designee of a private employer, shall have the following
   responsibilities:
   
   
   
   (a)	Notifying the employees of their rights under the applicable law through
   posters, the employee handbook or manual, and trainings on the subject;
   
   
   
   (b)	Providing information to an employee regarding his or her rights and
   obligations if an employee requests DCFMLA leave or if the employee gives
   notice of a DCFMLA-qualifying event;
   
   
   
   (c)	Issuing an eligibility letter within five (5) days after request for the
   leave; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Issuing a designation letter within five (5) days after the submission of
   the employee’s medical certification.
   
   
   
   1617.5 	Each employer subject to the Act, through its FMLA Coordinator or
   other person coordinating FMLA compliance and/or responding to a DCFMLA
   request on behalf of a private employer, shall maintain records which document
   on an annual basis the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         The total number of employees who have taken leave pursuant to
   
   the DCFMLA;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         The annual additional cost to the employer for the expenses incurred to
   	replace an employee during the time the employee is on leave granted
   	pursuant to the DCFMLA;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         The annual additional cost incurred to pay for the employee’s health
   	insurance during the time the employee is on leave granted pursuant to the
   	DCFMLA;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         The length of leave taken by an employee pursuant to the DCFMLA;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         The reason(s) an employee took leave pursuant to the DCFMLA;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         The salary, hourly wage, or grade level of the employee who has taken
   	leave pursuant to the DCFMLA;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         The employee’s request and supporting documents for leave requested
   	pursuant to the DCFMLA; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         The employer’s disposition of the employee’s request for leave
   pursuant to 	the DCFMLA.
   
   
   
   1617.6 	The employer shall preserve the confidentiality of information
   relating to the circumstances and the particular reasons for an employee’s
   request for leave pursuant to the DCFMLA.

   1617.7. Only individuals with a demonstrated need to know an employee’s
   DCFMLA status or request can be provided such information. Even if the
   information is provided, information contained on the DCFMLA questionnaire or
   medical certification shall not be disclosed or shared with a supervisor,
   manager, or other agency official unless it is determined that the supervisor,
   manager, or other agency official has demonstrated the need to know particular
   information contained on the DCFMLA questionnaire or medical certification for
   work-related reasons.

   1617.8. Given the confidential nature of DCFMLA requests, DCFMLA forms and
   supporting medical certifications shall be maintained in a segregated and
   locked file, and the documents shall be stored separate and apart from the
   agency’s human resources files.
   
   
   
   1617.9 	Employer records relating to leave requests made pursuant to the
   DCFMLA shall be available for inspection by a representative of OHR during an
   employer’s regular business hours at the employer’s place of business in
   the District of Columbia as required by section 9(a) of the DCFMLA (D.C.
   Official Code § 32-508(a)).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10788, 10809 (November
   19, 2010).
