                                  DC REGULATIONS

INTERACTION WITH FEDERAL LAW (§ 4-1620)

1620.1. Both DCFMLA and federal FMLA apply to employers who have at least
   fifty (50) employees within the District of Columbia provided an exception
   does not apply.

   1620.2. For leave which qualifies under both DCFMLA and federal FMLA, the
   leave shall count against an employee’s entitlement for both laws and shall
   be counted or applied concurrently under both laws.

   1620.3. Nothing in the DCFMLA shall modify or affect any federal or District
   law
   
   	      prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion,
   national
   
   origin, sex, age, marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation,
   gender identity or expression, family responsibilities, genetic information,
   disability, matriculation, or political affiliation, including the District of
   Columbia Human Rights Act (D.C. Official Code §§ 2-1401.01 et seq.) (DCHRA)
   and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. §§ 2000(e) et.
   seq.).

   1620.4. The DCFMLA is not intended to modify or affect the Rehabilitation Act
   of 1973 (29 U.S.C. §§ 701 et seq.), the Americans with Disabilities Act of
   1990 (42 U.S.C.A. §§ 12101 to 12213) (ADA), or the disability provisions of
   the DCHRA or the regulations issued under those Acts.

   1620.5. The leave provisions of the DCFMLA are wholly distinct from the
   reasonable accommodation obligations of employers covered under the ADA and
   the DCHRA.  The purpose of the DCFMLA and federal FMLA is to make leave
   available to eligible employees and employers within its coverage, and not to
   limit already existing rights and protections.  An employer shall therefore
   provide leave under whichever statutory provision provides the greater rights
   to employees.

   1620.6. When an employer violates both the DCFMLA or federal FMLA and a
   discrimination law, an employee may recover under either or both statutes, if
   not   otherwise prohibited by law.  Double relief, however, shall not be
   awarded for the same loss.  When remedies coincide, a claimant may utilize
   whichever avenue of relief is desired, if not otherwise restricted by law.
   
   
   
   1620.7         	If an employee is a qualified individual with a disability
   within the meaning of the ADA, the employer must make reasonable
   accommodations, barring undue hardship, in accordance with the ADA.  At the
   same time, the employer must afford an employee his or her DCFMLA and federal
   FMLA rights.  The ADA’s “disability” and DCFMLA and federal FMLA’s
   “serious health condition” are different concepts, and must be analyzed
   separately.  DCFMLA entitles eligible employees to sixteen (16) weeks of
   medical leave in any twenty-four (24)-month period due to their own serious
   health condition, whereas the ADA allows an indeterminate amount of medical
   leave, barring undue hardship, as a reasonable accommodation.
   
   
   
   1620.8        	The DCFMLA and federal FMLA require employers to maintain
   employees’ group health plan coverage during DCFMLA and FMLA leave on the
   same conditions as coverage would have been provided if the employee had been
   continuously employed during the leave period.  However, ADA does not require
   maintenance of health insurance unless other employees receive health
   insurance during leave under the same circumstances. When evaluating a
   situation where both the DCFMLA or federal FMLA and the ADA apply to an
   individual, the law that provides the greater right or benefit to the
   individual shall be applied. (See 29 CFR § 825.702 for specific examples of
   the interaction of the federal FMLA with the ADA.)
   
   
   
   1620.9         	Under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the DCHRA,
   an employer shall provide the same benefits for women who are pregnant as the
   employer provides to other employees with short-term disabilities.  Because
   Title VII does not require employees to be employed for a certain period of
   time to be protected, an employee employed for less than twelve (12) months by
   the employer (and, therefore, not an “eligible” employee under DCFMLA) may
   not be denied maternity leave if the employer normally provides short-term
   disability benefits or the ability to take similar periods of medical leave to
   employees with the same tenure who are experiencing other short-term
   disabilities.
   
   
   
   1620.10           Under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment
   Rights
   
   Act of 1994 (38 U.S.C. §§ 4301 et seq.) (USERRA), veterans are entitled to
   receive all rights and benefits of employment that they would have obtained if
   they had been continuously employed. Therefore, under USERRA, a returning
   service member would be eligible for DCFMLA or federal FMLA leave if the
   months and hours that he or she would have worked for the civilian employer
   during the period of military service, combined with the months employed and
   the hours actually worked, meet the DCFMLA or federal FMLA eligibility
   thresholds.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10812 (November 19,
   2010).
