                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMPLOYMENT AND BENEFITS PROTECTION (§ 4-1609)

1609.1. An employee who takes family or medical leave under this chapter shall
   not lose any employment benefit or seniority accrued before the date on which
   the family or medical leave commenced.

   1609.2. During any period in which an employee takes family or medical leave,
   
   the employer shall maintain coverage for the employee under any group health
   plan, as defined in § 5000(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (approved
   October 21, 1986 (100 Stat. 2012; 26 U.S.C. 5000(b)).  For the purposes of
   this subsection, the term “group health plan” shall also include a group
   health plan provided by the District of Columbia government.

   1609.3. The employer shall maintain coverage for the duration of the family or
   medical leave at the same level and under the same conditions that coverage
   would have been provided if the employee had not taken the family or medical
   leave.

   1609.4. An employer may require the employee to continue to make any
   
   contribution to a group health plan that the employee would have made if the
   employee had not taken family or medical leave. If an employee is unable or
   refuses to make the contribution to the group health plan, the employee shall
   forfeit the health plan benefit until the employee is restored to employment
   pursuant to § 1609.6 and resumes payment to the plan.

   1609.5. When the employee who agreed to alternative employment is able to
   
   perform the functions of the employee’s original position, the employee
   shall be restored to the employee’s original position.

   1609.6. Except as provided in § 1609.8 and applicable provisions of a
   negotiated 				collective bargaining agreement, upon return from family or
   medical leave:
   
   (a)   	The employee shall be restored by the employer to the position of
   
   employment held by the employee when the family or medical leave commenced; or
   
   
   
   (b)       If the position held by the employee when the family or medical
   
   leave commenced is no longer available, the employee shall be restored to a
   position of employment equivalent to the position held by the employee when
   the family or medical leave commenced.  The position shall include equivalent
   employment benefits, pay, seniority, and other terms and conditions of
   employment.
   
    1609.7		Except as provided in § 1609.2, nothing in this section shall
   entitle an 				employee restored by an employer to a position of employment
   to:
   
   (a)    	The accrual of any seniority or employment benefit during any
   
   	period of family or medical leave; or
   
   
   
   (b)       Any rights, employment benefit, or position of employment other
   
   than any right, employment benefit, or position of employment to which the
   employee would have been entitled had the employee not taken the family or
   medical leave.

   1609.8. Except as provided in § 1609.6, an employer in the District may deny
   restoration 			of employment to a salaried employee if the employee is among
   the five (5) 			highest paid employees of an employer of fewer than fifty (50)
   persons or among 			the highest paid ten percent (10%) of employees of an
   employer of fifty (50) or 			more persons and the following conditions are
   met:
   
   
   
   
   
   The employer demonstrates that denial of restoration of employment is
   necessary to prevent substantial and grievous economic injury to the
   employer’s operations and the injury is not directly related to the leave
   that the employee took pursuant to this chapter; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The employer notifies the employee of the intent to deny restoration of
   employment and the basis for the decision at the time  it provides the
   eligibility letter to the employee following the employee’s request for
   leave as described in § 1613.

   1609.9. Section 1609.8 shall not apply if:
   
   
   
   (a)   	The employer is under a contract to provide work or services and the
   	absence of the employee prohibits them from completing the contract in
   	accordance with the terms of the contract;
   
   
   
   (b)	Failure to complete the contract will cause substantial and grievous
   	economic injury to the employer; and
   
   
   
   (c)	After the employer made reasonable attempts, the employer failed to find
   	a temporary replacement for the employee.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10788, 10799 (November
   19, 2010).
