                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE TO BE PROVIDED BY EMPLOYERS (§ 4-1613)

1613.1. Each employer and each District of Columbia government agency, through
   its FMLA Coordinator or designee, shall provide written and verbal notice to
   employers of their DCFMLA rights and responsibilities and shall also answer
   questions from employees concerning their rights and responsibilities under
   the DCFMLA.
   
   
   
   1613.2  	         An employer shall make DCFMLA information available to
   employees by posting it and including it in its employee handbook or manual.
   Posting includes displaying a hard copy in a conspicuous place frequented by
   employees or an electronic copy on the employer’s website.  If an employer
   does not maintain an employee handbook or manual, it shall distribute DCFMLA
   information to new employees in another form (such as through a handout or
   electronic (e-mail) distribution.

   1613.3. When an employee requests DCFMLA leave, or when an employer acquires
   knowledge that an employee’s leave may be for a DCFMLA-qualifying reason,
   the employer shall notify the employee of his or her eligibility under the Act
   in accordance with § 1613.4.

   1613.4. Within five (5) days after an employee’s request for leave under the
   DCFMLA, an employer shall provide written notice to the employee in the form
   of an eligibility letter. The eligibility letter shall notify the employee of
   the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Whether the employee is an “eligible employee” for the purposes of the
   	DCFMLA, as described in § 1603.1;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If the employer determines that the employee is not an “eligible
   	employee” for the purposes of the DCFMLA, as described in § 1602.1, the
   	reasons for the employee’s ineligibility;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The specific expectations and obligations of the employee under the DCFMLA
   and, if applicable, federal FMLA (29 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The employee’s rights under the DCFMLA and, if applicable,  federal FMLA;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The number of hours of leave which are available to the employee under the
   DCFMLA and, if applicable, federal FMLA; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If applicable, a notice that the employee must submit a certification as
   referenced in § 1615, if such certification is required by the employer.

   1613.5. As described in § 1615, an employer may require that an employee
   submit a medical certification to the employer’s FMLA Coordinator or
   designee within fifteen (15) days after the issuance of the eligibility
   letter, if the employee seeks to take medical leave.  In addition, an employer
   may require the employee to submit a medical certification for leave related
   to a family member’s serious health condition.

   1613.6. After an employer receives a medical certification from an employee,
   as provided in § 1615, the employer, through its FMLA Coordinator or
   designee, shall be responsible for designating leave as DCFMLA or federal
   FMLA-qualifying, and for giving notice in writing of the designation to the
   employee within five (5) business days after receiving the medical
   certification, unless there are extenuating circumstances.

   1613.7. If family or medical leave taken by an employee qualifies as DCFMLA
   and/or federal FMLA leave, the employer may designate the leave as DCFMLA
   and/or federal FMLA leave, regardless of whether the employee requested to
   have the leave designated.

   1613.8. Notices provided to employees with limited English proficiency must
   comply with the Language Access Act of 2004 (D.C. Official Code §§ 2-1931 et
   seq.).

   1613.9. Failure to follow the notice requirements set forth in this section
   may constitute an interference with, restraint, or denial of the exercise of
   an employee’s DCFMLA rights. An employer may be liable for compensation and
   benefits lost by reason of the violation, for other actual monetary losses
   sustained as a direct result of the violation, and for appropriate equitable
   or other relief, including employment, reinstatement, promotion, or any other
   relief tailored to the harm suffered.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10788, 10803 (November
   19, 2010).
