                                  DC REGULATIONS

ENTITLEMENTS-MEDICAL LEAVE (§ 4-1605)

1605.1. An employee who becomes unable to perform the functions of his or her
   position because of a serious health condition shall be entitled to medical
   leave for the period during which the employee is unable to perform the
   functions, except that the medical leave shall not exceed sixteen (16)
   workweeks during any twenty-four (24)-month period. The medical leave may be
   taken intermittently or on a reduced schedule basis for planned and/or
   unanticipated medical treatment or recovery when medically necessary.

   1605.2. For purposes of this chapter, “serious health condition” means a
   physical or mental illness, injury, or impairment that involves inpatient care
   in a hospital, hospice, or residential health care facility, or continuing
   treatment or supervision at home by a health care provider or other competent
   individual.   For the purposes of this definition:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The term “treatment” includes, but is not limited to, examinations to
   determine if a serious health condition exists and evaluations of the
   condition.  Treatment does not include routine physical examinations, eye
   examinations, or dental examinations.  A regimen of continuing treatment such
   as the taking of over-the-counter medications, bed rest, or similar activities
   that can be initiated without a visit to a health care provider is not, by
   itself, sufficient to constitute continuing treatment for purposes of DCFMLA
   leave.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The term “inpatient care” is the care of a patient in a hospital, hospice,
   or residential medical care facility for the duration of one (1) overnight or
   longer, or any subsequent treatment in connection with such inpatient care.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The term “incapacity” means inability to work, attend school, or perform
   other regular daily activities due to the serious health condition, treatment
   of the serious health condition, or recovery from the serious health
   condition.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conditions for which cosmetic treatments are administered, such as most
   treatments for acne or plastic surgery, are not “serious health
   conditions” within this definition unless they render the recipient of such
   treatment incapacitated or unless complications develop.

   1605.3. A serious health condition involving continuing treatment by a health
   care provider includes any one (1) or more of the following:
   
   (a)	A period of incapacity of more than three (3) consecutive, full calendar
   days, and any subsequent treatment or period of incapacity relating to the
   same condition that also involves:
   
   (1) 	Treatment two (2) or more times within thirty (30) days of the first day
   of incapacity, unless extenuating circumstances exist, by a health care
   provider, by a nurse under direct supervision of a health care provider, or by
   a provider of health care services (for example, physical therapist) under
   orders of, or on referral by, a health care provider. Whether additional
   treatment visits or a regimen of continuing treatment is necessary within the
   thirty (30) day period shall be determined by the health care provider;
   
   (2)	The term “extenuating circumstances” in subparagraph (a)(1) of this
   paragraph means circumstances beyond the employee’s control that prevent the
   follow-up visit from occurring as planned by the health care provider. Whether
   a given set of circumstances are extenuating depends on the facts. For
   example, extenuating circumstances exist if a health care provider determines
   that a second in-person visit is needed within the thirty (30)-day period, but
   the health care provider does not have any available appointments during that
   time period.  The requirement for treatment by a health care provider means an
   in-person visit to a health care provider. The first (or only) in-person
   treatment visit must take place within ten (10) days after the first day of
   incapacity; or
   
   (3) 	Treatment by a health care provider on at least one occasion, which
   results in a regimen of continuing treatment under the supervision of the
   health care provider.  The requirement for treatment by a health care provider
   means an in-person visit to a health care provider. The first (or only)
   in-person treatment visit shall take place within ten (10) days after the
   first day of incapacity.
   
    (b)	Any period of incapacity due to pregnancy, or for prenatal care.   See
   also 29 CFR § 825.120;
   
   (c)	Any period of incapacity or treatment for such incapacity due to a chronic
   serious health condition. A chronic serious health condition is one which:
   
   (1)  	Requires periodic visits (defined as at least twice a year) for
   treatment by a health care provider or by a nurse under direct supervision of
   a health care provider;
   
   (2) 	Continues over an extended period of time (including recurring episodes
   of a single underlying condition); and
   
   (3)	May cause episodic rather than a continuing period of incapacity (such as
   asthma, diabetes, and epilepsy);
   
   (d) 	A period of incapacity which is permanent or long-term due to a condition
   for which treatment may not be effective. The employee or family member must
   be under the continuing supervision of, but need not be receiving active
   treatment by, a health care provider. Examples include Alzheimer’s, a severe
   stroke, or the terminal stages of a disease; or
   
   (e) 	Any period of absence to receive multiple treatments (including any
   period of recovery from the treatments) by a health care provider or by a
   provider of health care services under orders of, or on referral by, a health
   care provider, for:
   
   (1)	Restorative surgery after an accident or other injury; or
   
   (2) 	A condition that would likely result in a period of incapacity of more
   than three (3) consecutive, full calendar days in the absence of medical
   intervention or treatment, such as cancer (such as chemotherapy and
   radiation), severe arthritis (physical therapy), or kidney disease (dialysis).

   1605.4. Absences attributable to incapacity under § 1605.3(b) or (c) shall
   qualify for DCFMLA leave even if the employee does not receive treatment from
   a health care provider during the absence, and even if the absence does not
   last more than three (3) consecutive, full calendar days. For example, an
   employee with asthma may be unable to report for work due to the onset of an
   asthma attack or because the employee’s health care provider has advised the
   employee to stay home when the pollen count exceeds a certain level. As a
   further example, an employee who is pregnant may be unable to report to work
   because of severe morning sickness.

   1605.5. Nothing in this section shall require an employer to provide paid
   medical leave.  Should an employee wish to use paid medical, sick, vacation,
   personal, or compensatory leave which the employee has accrued, the employee
   may use such paid leave, provided that it otherwise meets the employer’s
   requirements for the taking of such paid leave. Any paid medical, sick,
   vacation, personal, or compensatory leave provided by an employer that the
   employee elects to use for medical leave under this chapter shall count
   against the sixteen (16) workweeks of allowable medical leave provided by the
   DCFMLA.

   1605.6. If an employer has a program that allows an employee to use the paid
   leave of another employee under certain conditions (commonly referred to as a
   leave bank), and the conditions for the employee’s use of the leave bank
   have been met, the employee may use the paid leave as medical leave, and the
   leave shall count against the sixteen (16) workweeks of medical leave provided
   by the DCFMLA.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 38 DCR 4350, 4353-56 (July 12, 1991);
   as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10788, 10794
   (November 19, 2010).
