                                  DC REGULATIONS

HEARINGS (§ 4-1623)

1623.1. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the Subchapter I of the
   Administrative Procedure Act (D.C. Official Code §§ 2-501 et seq.) and shall
   be conducted by hearing examiners employed by, or providing pro bono
   assistance, to OHR.
   
   
   
   1623.2 	Discovery may be obtained through any of the following methods;
   provided, that all requests for discovery shall be filed with the hearing
   examiner and served on the adverse party no later than fifteen (15) calendar
   days prior to the hearing:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         Deposition upon oral examination or written questions;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         Written interrogatories;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Request for production of documents, objects, or permission to enter upon
   premises for inspection;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Physical or mental examination by a qualified practitioner; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Requests for admissions.
   
   
   
   1623.3 	If a party fails to answer a request for discovery, the requesting
   party may move for an order from the hearing examiner compelling discovery by
   filing a motion to compel discovery.  The party shall also file the motion on
   the adverse party.
   
   
   
   1623.4 	An evasive or incomplete answer to a request for discovery shall be
   considered a failure to answer.
   
   
   
   1623.5 	Should the party resisting discovery find that the discovery request
   is unduly burdensome, it may file a motion to quash with the hearing examiner.
   In its opposition to the motion, the requesting party shall show a substantial
   need for the requested material and its inability to obtain the material by
   alternate means.

   1623.6. The party resisting discovery may file a response with the hearing
   examiner and serve the adverse party with the response within five (5)
   calendar days after the original request for an order.
   
   
   
   1623.7 	The hearing examiner may issue an order compelling the discovery,
   limiting its scope, issuing a protective order, or granting any other relief
   as the case and the interests of justice demand.
   
   
   
   1623.8 	Any party may request that the hearing examiner issue a subpoena
   compelling the appearance and testimony of a witness or the production of
   documents. The application for any subpoena shall state, with particularity,
   the testimony or evidence being sought and the time and place for production.
   The adverse party may challenge the issuance of a subpoena by filing a motion
   to quash with the hearing examiner and serving the motion to quash on the
   adverse party within five (5) calendar days after the service of the subpoena
   on the party challenging the subpoena.
   
   
   
   1623.9 	The hearing examiner shall have the same powers and remedies available
   in ruling on challenges to subpoenas as in ruling on challenges to discovery.
   
   
   
   1623.10 	A party that fails to obey an order of the hearing examiner with
   respect to discovery or a subpoena shall be subject to those sanctions or
   remedies which exist for similar failures to obey orders in civil cases in the
   Superior Court of the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   1623.11 	Pre-hearing statements, if any, shall be filed by the parties at
   least ten (10) calendar days prior to the scheduled hearing date and served on
   the opposing party.
   
   
   
   1623.12 	Hearings shall be conducted in an impartial manner. The hearing
   examiner may ask questions of witnesses, request the submission of additional
   documents or other evidence, may issue subpoenas for witnesses who refuse to
   attend, and may otherwise act to ensure both the protection of the substantive
   rights of the parties and the presentation of all relevant issues necessary
   for consideration and decision.
   
   
   
   1623.13 	The party alleging violation of the DCFMLA bears the burden of coming
   forward with evidence to establish a prima facie case that the DCFMLA was
   violated. Once a prima facie case is established, the respondent employer
   shall bear the burden of producing evidence to the contrary. The complainant
   shall bear the burden of proof that the violations of the DCFMLA occurred;
   provided, that the employer shall bear the burden of proof that it should
   receive a reduction in damages pursuant to section 10(b)(6)(C) of the DCFMLA
   (D.C. Official Code § 32-509(b)(6)(C)).
   
   
   
   1623.14 	If either party fails to appear without good cause, the hearing
   examiner may hold that party in default, or may go forward with the hearing
   and decide the case on the basis of the record and the evidence presented by
   the appearing party.
   
   
   
   1623.15 	The hearing examiner may exclude evidence from the record if it is
   incompetent, irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious.
   
   
   
   1623.16 	Admissions or representations made in connection with prior
   settlement negotiations shall be excluded from the record.
   
   
   
   1623.17 	Hearsay evidence may be admitted into the record at the discretion of
   the hearing examiner and accorded such weight as the hearing examiner
   considers warranted by the circumstances.
   
   
   
   1623.18 	The parties may stipulate as to any matter of fact. A stipulation
   shall satisfy a party’s burden of proving that fact.
   
   
   
   1623.19 	The hearing examiner may, on the motion of a party or on its own
   initiative, take official notice of matters of common knowledge or of any
   information contained in the records of OHR or of other matters that can be
   verified. Official notice of any fact shall satisfy a party’s burden of
   proving that fact.
   
   
   
   1623.20 	When a witness is unavailable, as defined by the Civil Rules of the
   Superior Court of the District of Columbia, to testify in person, or upon the
   agreement of the parties, the hearing examiner may admit the content of the
   proffered testimony, in an alternate form, such as the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         An affidavit attested to by the witness;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         A transcript of the deposition of the witness; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Written responses by the witness to interrogatories propounded by
   
   the parties.
   
   
   
   1623.21 	If a party seeks the admission of an alternate form of testimony, the
   hearing examiner shall require that party to provide notice and evidence of
   the witness’s unavailability, as well as a proffer of the relevance of the
   testimony.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10816 (November 19,
   2010).
