                                  DC REGULATIONS

FINAL DECISION OF THE DIRECTOR AFTER THE HEARING (§ 4-1625)

1625.1. Following receipt of the hearing examiner’s recommendations or
   proposed decision or order, and any argument or proposed substitute order or
   findings submitted by a party, the Director shall do one of the following:
   
   
   
   		(a)		Render a final decision which may adopt, reject, or modify the decision
   of the hearing examiner in whole or in part; or
   
   
   
   	      (b)		Remand the matter for further hearing.

   1625.2. If the Director rejects or modifies the recommended decision of the
   hearing examiner, the final decision of the Director shall set forth in detail
   the specific reasons for rejection or modification.

   1625.3. The final decision of the Director shall be served on the parties or
   their representatives and, if not a party, the agency involved.

   1625.4. Either party may file a written request with the Director for
   reconsideration or to reopen the case within fifteen (15) days after the date
   of issuance of the final decision.

   1625.5. A party seeking reconsideration of the Director’s final decision
   shall submit an application for reconsideration to the Director in writing,
   stating specifically the grounds upon which the request for reconsideration is
   based.  The grounds shall be limited to misapplication of law, material
   misstatement of fact, or discovery of evidence not available during the
   investigation.

   1625.6. A request for reconsideration shall only be considered if the
   requesting party	 demonstrates that there is newly discovered evidence that is
   competent, relevant, and material and was not reasonably discoverable prior to
   issuance of the final decision by the Director and that such evidence, if
   credited, would alter the ultimate outcome in the case.

   1625.7. The letter transmitting the final decision of the Director shall
   advise the parties of their right to request reconsideration of the case
   pursuant to § 1625.4 or to seek judicial review of the decision by a court of
   competent jurisdiction.

   1625.8. If either party requests reconsideration or the reopening of the case
   pursuant to § 1625.4, and the Director determines that the case should be
   reconsidered, the Director shall inform the parties that the case is being
   reconsidered or reopened and that the final decision previously issued by the
   Director is vacated or stayed.

   1625.9. If neither party requests reconsideration or the reopening of the case
   pursuant to § 1625.4, the final decision of the Director shall become the
   final administrative action of the District government fifteen (15) days after
   issuance of the decision, and the parties shall be deemed to have exhausted
   all administrative remedies.

   1625.10. If the Director decides not to grant a request for reconsideration,
   the Director shall so notify the parties in writing.  At the time the
   notification is issued, the decision previously issued shall become the final
   administrative action of the District government.

   1625.11. If no action is taken on a request for reconsideration or to reopen a
   case within ninety (90) days after the request is filed, the request shall be
   deemed disapproved, and the decision previously issued shall become the final
   administrative action of the District government.

   1625.12. In the interests of justice, the Director may, on his or her own
   initiative, reopen or reconsider a case in which the Director has issued a
   decision at any time prior to the filing of an appeal by either party with a
   court of competent jurisdiction.

   1625.13. If the Director reconsiders or reopens a case and modifies the case
   findings, the Director shall inform the parties that the decision previously
   issued by the Director is vacated and issue a second decision and order.

   1625.14. A party may appeal the final decision of OHR to the Superior Court of
   the District of Columbia.

   1625.15. The appealing party must file a Petition for Review with the Clerk of
   the Superior Court’s Civil Division within thirty (30) days after service of
   notice of the final decision.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10788, 10819 (November
   19, 2010).
