                                  DC REGULATIONS

CLAIMS FOR LEAVE-MEDICAL CERTIFICATION (§ 4-1615)

1615.1 	An employer may require that an employee support a claim for family
   leave under the DCFMLA for the care of a family member who has a serious
   health condition by submitting a medical certification issued by the family
   member’s health care provider.
   
   
   
   1615.2 	An employer may require that a claim for medical leave under the
   DCFMLA for an eligible employee who has a serious health condition be
   supported by a medical certification issued by the employee’s health care
   provider.  If the employee’s employer requests such a certification, the
   employee shall submit the requested certification to the employer within
   fifteen (15) days, unless it is not practicable for the employee to do so
   under the particular circumstances, despite the employee’s diligent,
   good-faith efforts.  For example, if the employee has diligently submitted the
   certification request to the employee’s health care provider in a timely
   manner, but the employee’s health care provider has not returned the
   completed certification before the fifteen (15) day deadline, the employee may
   need additional time to communicate with the health care provider regarding
   the need to return the completed certification or to see another health care
   provider who can complete the certification.
   
   
   
   1615.3 	The medical certification shall state the following:
   
   
   
   (a)     	The date on which the serious health condition began, or is expected
   to begin;
   
   
   
   (b)     	The probable duration of the condition;
   
   
   
   (c)     	The appropriate medical facts known to the health care
   
   provider that would entitle the eligible employee to leave under the DCFMLA;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)     	For purposes of medical leave, a statement that the employee
   
   is unable to perform the essential functions of the employee’s position; or,
   for purposes of family leave, an estimate of the amount of time that the
   employee is needed to care for the family member.
   
   
   
    1615.4	The certification shall not include any genetic information or family
   medical history of the employee or the employee’s family members. An
   employer shall not require, and an employee is under no obligation to provide,
   genetic information or family medical history of the employee or the
   employee’s family members.

   1615.5. If the employer believes that the medical certification returned by an
   employee does not provide the information required by § 1615.3, the employer
   shall notify the employee, in writing, of the missing or deficient information
   within five (5) days of receipt of the medical certification.  The employee
   shall then have ten (10) days to correct the certification by providing the
   missing or deficient information to the employer, unless it is not practicable
   for the employee to do so, despite the employee’s diligent good-faith
   efforts.

   1615.6. If the employer has reason to doubt the validity of the certification
   provided under this section, the employer may require that the employee
   obtain, at the expense of the employer, the opinion of a second health care
   provider approved by the employer, in regard to any information required to be
   certified.

   1615.7. If the second opinion provided under this subsection differs from the
   original certification provided for in this section, the employee may obtain
   the opinion of a third health care provider mutually agreed upon by the
   employer and the employee, in regard to any information required to be
   certified under this section. The employer shall pay the cost of the opinion
   of the third health care provider.  The third health care provider approved or
   mutually agreed upon by the employer and employee may not be a health care
   provider retained on a regular basis by the employer or employee, or a health
   care provider who otherwise bears such a close relationship to the employer or
   employee that there would be the appearance that the certification is biased.

   1615.8. The opinion of the third health care provider shall be final and
   binding on the employer and employee.

   1615.9. The employer may require that the employee obtain subsequent
   
   recertifications if:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         The employee requests an extension of leave or a different type or
   
   frequency of leave, beyond what the employee requested in the
   
   employee’s initial certification or request for DCFMLA leave;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
        The employer obtains new information which causes it to doubt the
   
        validity of the employee’s stated reason for the leave or the
   
        continuing validity of the certification; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   More than six (6) months has passed since the employee previously submitted a
   certification for the leave.

   1615.10. Certification information requested under this section shall be used
   
   only to make a decision in regard to the provisions of this chapter. An
   employer shall keep any medical information obtained from a certification
   request confidential.

   1615.11. For family leave under the DCFMLA for the care of a family member who
   has a serious health condition, in addition to requiring submission of a
   medical certification, an employer may require that an employee support a
   claim for family leave by submitting a signed affidavit stating that the
   employee is, in fact, the person who will be taking care of the specific
   family member with the serious health condition.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10788, 10806 (November
   19, 2010).
