                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERATOR CERTIFICATION AND ELIGIBILITY (§ 15-2902)

2902.1. Renewable electricity generators, including behind-the-meter (BTM)
   generators, must be certified as a qualified resource by the Commission. 
   After January 31, 2011, the Commission shall not certify any Tier One solar
   energy system larger than five megawatts (5 MW) in capacity or any Tier One
   solar energy system not located within the District of Columbia or in
   locations served by a distribution feeder serving the District of Columbia.

   2902.2. Renewable electricity generators, including BTM generators, may be
   certified as a Tier One or Tier Two resource. In order to be certified,
   applicants must:
   
   
   
   (a)	Complete the Commission&#8217;s &#8220;Application for Certification as an
   Eligible District of Columbia Renewable Energy Standards Generating
   Facility&#8221; (Regular Application); or
   
   
   
   (b)	Complete the Commission&#8217;s &#8220;Streamlined Application for
   Certification as an Eligible District of Columbia Renewable Energy Standards
   Generating Facility&#8221; (Streamlined Application) in cases where the
   applicant has already been certified as a renewable energy resource by another
   PJM state and the Commission determines certification to be comparable to the
   Renewable Energy Portfolio Standards requirements in the District of Columbia.
   The applicant should refer to the Tier One and Tier Two eligibility matrices
   available on the Commission&#8217;s website to determine if the Streamlined
   Application can be submitted.

   2902.3. The following states are deemed to be within the PJM Interconnection
   Region as of October 2011: Delaware, the District of Columbia, Illinois,
   Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio,
   Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia.

   2902.4. The Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard (RPS) Working Group shall
   identify any new renewable energy resource that has been certified by another
   PJM state that is eligible for participation in the District of
   Columbia&#8217;s RPS. This information shall be included in the filing of the
   annual update to the Tier One and Tier Two eligibility matrices to be
   submitted by February 1 of each calendar year.

   2902.5. An applicant submitting a Regular Application or a Streamlined
   Application for certification as a renewable resource shall state, at a
   minimum:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the Renewable Energy Facility for which the application is
   made and its address;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name of the owner of the facility and the owner&#8217;s contact
   information;
   
   
   
   	(c)	The name of the operator of the facility and the operator&#8217;s contact
   	information;
   
   
   
   	(d)	The name of a contact person and the person&#8217;s contact information;
   
   
   
   	(e)	The location of the resource;
   
   
   
   	(f)	The renewable fuel type(s) and capacity information;
   
   
   
   	(g)	The commercial operation start date (or date of approved 	interconnection
   with the Potomac Electric Power Company 	(PEPCO));
   
   
   
   	(h)	Whether the facility is a &#8220;behind-the-meter&#8221; generator;
   
   
   
   	(i)	Whether the facility is certified by another state as an eligible
   	generation resource to meet the portfolio standards of that state; 	and
   
   
   
   	(j)	The Office of Regulatory Information Systems Plant Location 	(ORISPL)
   Code for the facility.

   2902.6. In addition to the information required in § 2902.5, an applicant
   submitting a Regular Application must also attach:
   
   
   
   (a)	A current Certificate of Good Standing for the applicant issued by the
   state in which the business was formed;
   
   
   
   	(b)	A copy of the U.S. Department of Energy, Energy Information
   	Administration Form EIA 860, if the rated capacity is greater than 	one
   megawatt (1 MW);
   
   
   
   	(c)	A Certificate of Authorization to Conduct Business in the District 	of
   Columbia, if applicable;
   
   
   
   	(d)	An Affidavit of General Compliance;
   
   
   
   	(e)	Documentation of authority to sign on behalf of the Applicant;
   
   
   
   	(f)	An Affidavit of Environmental Compliance, if the rated capacity is
   	greater than ten kilowatts (10 kW);
   
   
   
   	(g) 	Documentation that the energy output of the non-residential solar
   	heating, cooling, or process heat property systems producing or 	displacing
   greater than ten thousand kilowatt hours 	(10,000 kWh) 	per year is determined
   by an on-site energy meter 	that meets 	performance standards established by
   the International 	Organization of Legal Metrology (OIML) and the solar
   collectors 	used have a OG-100 certification from the Solar Rating and
   	Certification Corporation (SRCC), if applicable;
   
   
   
   	(h) 	Documentation that the energy output of the non-residential solar
   	heating, cooling, or process heat property systems producing or 	displacing
   ten thousand (10,000) or less kilowatt-hours per year is 	determined by the
   SRCC OG-300 annual system performance 	rating protocol applicable to the
   property or by an on-site energy 	meter that meets performance standards
   established by OIML and 	the solar collectors used have a OG-100 certification
   from the 	SRCC, if applicable;
   
   
   
   	(i) 	Documentation that the residential solar thermal system energy 	output
   is determined by the SRCC OG-300 annual rating protocol 	or by an on-site
   energy meter that meets performance standards 	established by OIML and the
   solar collectors used have a OG-100 	certification from the SRCC, if
   applicable;  and
   
   
   
   	(j)	Interconnection Approval Letter from the PEPCO for the solar 	energy
   system, if applicable.

   2902.7. In addition to the information required in § 2902.5, an applicant
   submitting a Streamlined Application must also attach:
   
   
   
   (a) 	An Affidavit of General Compliance;
   
   
   
   (b) 	An Affidavit of Environmental Compliance, if the rated capacity is
   	greater than ten kilowatts (10 kW);
   
   
   
   (c)		Documentation of authority to sign on behalf of the Applicant;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Documentation that the energy output of the non-residential solar
   heating, cooling, or process heat property systems producing or displacing
   greater than ten thousand kilowatt hours (10,000 kWh) per year is determined
   by an on-site energy meter that meets performance standards established by the
   OIML and the solar collectors used have a OG-100 certification from the SRCC,
   if applicable;
   
   
   
   (e) 			Documentation that the energy output of the non-residential solar
   heating, cooling, or process heat property systems producing or displacing ten
   thousand (10,000) or less kilowatt-hours per year is determined by the SRCC
   OG-300 annual system performance rating protocol applicable to the property or
   by an on-site energy meter that meets performance standards established by
   OIML and the solar collectors used have a OG-100 certification from the SRCC,
   if applicable;
   
   
   
   (f) 			Documentation that the residential solar thermal system energy output
   is determined by the SRCC OG-300 annual rating protocol or by an on-site
   energy meter that meets performance standards established by OIML and the
   solar collectors used have a OG-100 certification from the SRCC, if
   applicable;  and
   
   
   
   (g)			Interconnection Approval Letter from PEPCO for the solar energy system,
   if applicable.

   2902.8. A Regular or Streamlined Application may be submitted at any time on
   the Commission-approved application forms. All application forms are available
   from the Office of the Commission Secretary or the Commission&#8217;s website
   at www.dcpsc.org/applications/applications.asp.

   2902.9. The Commission shall issue a decision on the Regular Application forms
   within thirty (30) business days of filing. The generation resource shall be
   considered certified if the Commission has not acted within the thirty (30)
   business-day period, except where the Commission or its staff has issued a
   request for further information that is still outstanding.

   2902.10. The Commission shall issue a decision on the Streamlined Application
   forms within fifteen (15) business days of filing. The generation resource
   shall be considered certified if the Commission has not acted within the
   fifteen (15) business-day period, except where the Commission or its staff has
   issued a request for further information that is still outstanding.

   2902.11. In cases where the Commission or its staff determines that a Regular
   Application is insufficient or incomplete, the Commission or its staff will
   send a written request for additional information within fifteen (15) business
   days of the date of the filing of the application. In such cases, the
   applicant shall have fifteen (15) days to submit the additional information.

   2902.12. In cases where the Commission or its staff determines that a
   Streamlined Application is insufficient or incomplete, the Commission or its
   staff will send a written request for additional information within ten
   business (10) days of the date of the filing of the application. In such
   cases, the applicant shall have fifteen (15) days to submit the additional
   information.

   2902.13. A request for additional information from the Commission or its staff
   shall toll the deadline in these rules for issuing a decision on the
   applicant&#8217;s Regular or Streamlined Application.

   2902.14. Upon receipt of the additional information from the applicant or its
   authorized representative, the Commission shall issue a decision on the
   application in accordance with the time periods prescribed in § 2902.9 for
   Regular Applications and § 2902.10 for Streamlined Applications.

   2902.15. Upon approval of an application, the Commission shall assign a unique
   GATS certificate number to the eligible renewable energy generating resource.
   The Commission should be notified of any planned substantive changes in the
   operating characteristics of a certified generating facility at least thirty
   (30) days prior to the effective date of such changes. Substantive changes
   include, but are not limited to, changes in fuel type, fuel mix, and generator
   type. A revised application should be submitted for Commission review, subject
   to the time periods prescribed in § 2902.9 for Regular Applications and §
   2902.10 for Streamlined Applications. In addition, applicants and
   District-certified generating facilities shall notify the Commission of any
   substantive changes in information provided in an original or amended
   application within thirty (30) days.  If a system is already certified, the
   changes to the system or facility shall be deemed approved unless the
   Commission requests additional information within fifteen (15) business days. 
   If a request for additional information is issued for a system that is already
   certified, the changes to the system or facility shall be deemed approved
   within fifteen (15) business days after a response is received, unless further
   information is requested.

   2902.16. A Renewable electricity generator may be decertified by the
   Commission if it is determined to no longer be an eligible renewable resource
   due to fraud or a material change in the nature of the resource. Before being
   decertified, a renewable electricity generator will be given thirty (30)
   days&#8217; written notice and an opportunity to show cause why it should not
   be decertified.

   2902.17. Any generating facility that is decertified due to fraud may not
   create any District of Columbia RECs for a three (3)-year period and may not
   retroactively create RECs for that same three (3)-year period.

   2902.18. Any subsequent unrelated owner of the decertified renewable
   electricity generator, pursuant to § 2902.16 above, is not subject to the
   three (3)-year exclusion beginning with its effective date of ownership.

   2902.19. RECs created prior to decertification of the generating facility by
   the Commission, pursuant to § 2902.16 above, shall be eligible to be used for
   Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard compliance purposes, subject to the
   restrictions identified in § 2903.2.

   2902.20. After December 31, 2012, a facility that uses the incineration of
   solid waste shall not be eligible to generate RECs for the District of
   Columbia’s RPS program.

   2901.21. After December 31, 2019, a facility certified as a Tier Two renewable
   resource shall not be eligible to generate RECs for the District of
   Columbia’s RPS program.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 000561 (January 18,
   2008); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 2727 (April 10,
   2009); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 7839 (October 2,
   2009), incorporating text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 2596
   (April 3, 2009); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR
   2313, 2316 (March 23, 2012).
