                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 15-2999)

2999.1. For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms and phrases have
   the following meanings:
   
   
   
   Adjacent PJM State &#8211; a state that is adjacent to the PJM Interconnection
   Region. The following states are deemed adjacent to the PJM Interconnection
   Region as of October 2011: Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Iowa, Mississippi,
   Missouri, New York, South Carolina, and Wisconsin. The adjacent states will
   vary as the boundary of the PJM Interconnection Region changes over time.
   
   
   
   Behind-the-meter generator or BTM generator &#8211; a renewable on-site
   generator that is located behind a retail customer meter such that no
   utility-owned transmission or distribution facilities are used to deliver the
   energy from the generating unit to the on-site generator&#8217;s load.
   
   
   
   Brush &#8211; shrubs and stands of short, scrubby trees that do not reach
   merchantable size.
   
   
   
   Commission &#8211; the Public Service Commission of the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Customer generation &#8211; generation that is not principally dedicated for
   sale into the wholesale electricity market.
   
   
   
   Dunnage &#8211; loose materials or padding used to support or protect cargo
   within shipping containers.
   
   
   
   Energy Office &#8211; the District of Columbia Department of the
   Environment&#8217;s Energy Office.
   
   
   
   Electricity supplier &#8211; a person, including an aggregator, broker, or
   marketer, who generates electricity; sells electricity; or purchases, brokers,
   arranges or, markets electricity for sale to customers. The term excludes the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Building owners, lessees, or managers who manage the internal distribution
   system serving such building and who supply electricity solely to occupants of
   the building for use by the occupants;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any person who purchases electricity for his or her own use or for the use
   of his or her subsidiaries or affiliates; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Any apartment building or office building manager who aggregates electric
   service requirements for his or her building or buildings, and who does not:
   
   
   
   (1)	Take title to the electricity;
   
   
   
   (2)	Market electric services to the individually-metered tenants of the
   building; or
   
   
   
   (3)	Engage in the resale of electric services to others;
   
   
   
   (d)	Property owners who supply small amounts of power, at cost, as an
   accommodation to lessors or licensees of the property; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A consolidator.
   
   
   
   Fund &#8211; the District of Columbia Renewable Energy Development Fund.
   
   
   
   PJM Interconnection &#8211; the regional transmission organization that is
   regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and functionally
   controls the transmission system for the region that includes the District of
   Columbia.
   
   
   
   PJM Interconnection region &#8211; the area within which the movement of
   wholesale electricity is coordinated by the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. With
   respect to qualifying RECs, the following states are deemed within the PJM
   Interconnection Region as of October 2011: Delaware, the District of Columbia,
   Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina,
   Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia.
   
   
   
   Qualifying biomass &#8211; a solid, non-hazardous, cellulosic waste material
   that is segregated from other waste materials, and is derived from any of the
   following forest-related resources, with the exception of old growth timber,
   unsegregated solid waste, or post-consumer wastepaper:
   
   
   
   (a)	Mill residue;
   
   
   
   (b)	Precommercial soft wood thinning;
   
   
   
   (c)	Slash;
   
   
   
   (d)	Brush;
   
   
   
   (e)	Yard waste;
   
   
   
   (f)	A waste pallet, crate, or dunnage;
   
   
   
   (g)	Agricultural sources, including tree crops, vineyard materials, grain,
   legumes, sugar, and other crop by products or residues; or
   
   
   
   (h)	Cofired biomass, subject to the condition under D.C. Official Code §
   34-1433(f) (2010 Repl.).
   
   
   
   Renewable energy credit or REC &#8211; a credit representing one megawatt (1
   MWH) hour of electricity produced by a Tier One or Tier Two renewable resource
   located within the PJM Interconnection region or within a state that is
   adjacent to the PJM Interconnection region.
   
   
   
   Renewable energy portfolio standard or standard &#8211; the percentage of
   electricity sales at retail in the District of Columbia that is to be derived
   from Tier One renewable sources and Tier Two renewable sources in accordance
   with D.C. Official Code § 34-1432(c) (2011 Supp.; as amended by Distributed
   Generation Amendment Act of 2011, effective October 20, 2011 (D.C. Law
   19-36)).
   
   
   
   Renewable on-site generator &#8211; a person that generates electricity on
   site from a Tier One renewable source or Tier Two renewable source for the
   person&#8217;s own use.
   
   
   
   Slash:
   
   
   
   (a)	Tree tops, branches, bark, or other residue left on the ground after
   logging or other forestry operations; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Tree debris left after a natural catastrophe.
   
   
   
   Solar energy &#8211; radiant energy, direct, diffuse, or reflected, received
   from the sun at wavelengths suitable for conversion into thermal, chemical, or
   electrical energy.
   
   
   
   Tier one renewable source &#8211; one (1) or more of the following types of
   energy sources:
   
   
   
   (a)	Solar energy;
   
   
   
   (b)	Wind;
   
   
   
   (c)	Qualifying biomass;
   
   
   
   (d)	Methane from the anaerobic decomposition of organic materials in a
   landfill or wastewater treatment plant;
   
   
   
   (e)	Geothermal;
   
   
   
   (f)	Ocean, including energy from waves, tides, currents, and thermal
   differences; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Fuel cells producing electricity from a Tier One renewable source under
   paragraph (c) or (d) of this paragraph.
   
   
   
   Tier two renewable source – one (1) or more of the following types of energy
   sources:
   
   
   
   (a)	Hydroelectric power other than pumped storage generation; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Waste-to-energy.
   
   
   
   Waste-to-energy &#8211; waste treatment, including the use of a licensed
   facility that burns waste resources in high-efficiency furnaces or boilers, to
   produce electricity. Such resources include municipal solid waste but exclude
   waste coal.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 000561 (January 18,
   2008); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 2313, 2323
   (March 23, 2012).
