                                  DC REGULATIONS

STAFF DEVELOPMENT (ยง 29-6229)

6229.1. Each facility shall provide a minimum of twenty (20) hours of
   instructional training and twenty (20) hours of experiential training to each
   new non-volunteer staff member. Non-volunteer staff members shall complete
   this training within the first thirty (30) calendar days of employment.

   6229.2. For volunteer staff members, the Facility shall provide a minimum of
   twenty-five (25) hours of experiential and instructional training. Volunteer
   staff members shall complete this training within the first six (6) months of
   work at the facility.

   6229.3. The training required by ยง 6229.1 shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Familiarization of the staff with emergency and safety procedures of the
   facility;
   
   
   
   (b)	The principles and practices of resident care, including appropriate
   training on age-specific and special physical, emotional, and medical needs;
   
   
   
   (c)	Administrative structure, procedures, and overall program goals of the
   facility;
   
   
   
   (d)	Procedures for maintaining confidential the residents&#8217; case records
   and information contained therein;
   
   
   
   (e)	Appropriate techniques of behavior management for staff providing direct
   care or supervision of residents;
   
   
   
   (f)	Techniques and methodologies of crisis management for staff providing
   direct care or supervision of residents;
   
   
   
   (g)	Methods of considering residents&#8217; diverse cultures;
   
   
   
   (h)	Methods of considering residents&#8217; sensitivities;
   
   
   
   (i)	Manifestation of and techniques for working with abused, neglected, and
   traumatized residents;
   
   
   
   (j)	Familiarization of the staff with the discipline policy of the facility
   and acceptable methods of discipline;
   
   
   
   (k)	The techniques and methodologies of passive physical restraint;
   
   
   
   (l)	Procedures for reporting actual or alleged resident abuse or neglect, and
   actual or alleged risk to a resident&#8217;s health or safety, including
   training on mandatory reporting;
   
   
   
   (m)	Recognition and prevention of abuse and neglect and risks to the
   resident&#8217;s health or safety;
   
   
   
   (n)	Recognition of substance abuse symptoms and treatment resources;
   
   
   
   (o)	Universal precautions;
   
   
   
   (p)	Identification of, and methods of responding to, suicidal behavior; and
   
   
   
   (q)	Intervention with violent residents.

   6229.4. All staff shall possess current American Red Cross Standard First Aid
   and CPR certifications or equivalent. Additionally, all staff serving
   residents five (5) years old or younger shall obtain infant CPR certification.
   A staff member who does not possess current American Red Cross Standard First
   Aid and CPR certifications or equivalent shall not provide direct care or
   supervision of residents unless he or she is accompanied by another staff
   member who does possess current American Red Cross Standard First Aid and CPR
   certifications or equivalent. All staff not so certified shall obtain such
   certifications within forty-five (45) calendar days of the enactment of this
   Chapter. All new staff shall obtain such certifications within forty-five (45)
   calendar days of becoming new staff.

   6229.5. Each facility shall provide at least forty (40) hours of in-service
   training for each staff member each year covering topics determined jointly by
   the facility and the licensing agency, including, where appropriate, training
   in acceptable methods of discipline required by ยง 6273.4 and training in
   acceptable methods of restraint required by ยง 6274.3.

   6229.6. Each facility shall maintain records of attendance at training.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 8675, 8709 (September 21, 2001).
