                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPORTING OF UNUSUAL INCIDENTS (ยง 29-6225)

6225.1. The facility shall report all unusual incidents to the contracting
   entity and the licensing agency, the resident&#8217;s parent and, if
   applicable, the resident&#8217;s guardian or custodian and the CSSD, as soon
   as possible but in no event later than twenty-four (24) hours by oral methods
   and in writing no later than the next business day.

   6225.2. The facility shall establish, implement, and describe in writing
   policies and procedures for the reporting of unusual incidents.

   6225.3. Unusual incidents include:
   
   
   
   (a)	The death of a resident;
   
   
   
   (b)	The death of a staff member while on duty or at the facility;
   
   
   
   (c)	An attempted suicide;
   
   
   
   (d)	A resident&#8217;s suspension or expulsion from school;
   
   
   
   (e)	Any situation in which a resident is missing or in abscondance;
   
   
   
   (f)	A resident&#8217;s alleged delinquent or criminal behavior, including but
   not limited to the possession or use of controlled substances;
   
   
   
   (g)	Any situation in which a resident is the victim of alleged delinquent or
   criminal behavior;
   
   
   
   (h)	A staff member&#8217;s actual or alleged possession of controlled
   substances, actual or alleged use of controlled substance, or appearance of
   being under the influence of controlled substances while on duty or at the
   facility;
   
   
   
   (i)	A staff member&#8217;s misconduct or fraud;
   
   
   
   (j)	An injury, trauma, or illness of a resident requiring treatment at a
   hospital;
   
   
   
   (k)	A violation of a resident&#8217;s rights;
   
   
   
   (l)	Any use of restraint;
   
   
   
   (m)	Sexual contact between a resident and another person, consensual or
   otherwise;
   
   
   
   (n)	Abuse or misuse of a resident&#8217;s funds;
   
   
   
   (o)	An outbreak of a communicable disease;
   
   
   
   (p)	An incident at the facility requiring the services of the fire or police
   departments;
   
   
   
   (q)	An automobile accident involving residents or staff on duty;
   
   
   
   (r)	Destruction of government property;
   
   
   
   (s)	A visit, whether announced or unannounced, by the media or high-level
   government officials;
   
   
   
   (t)	A loss of any utilities, including but not limited to power, water, or
   sewage;
   
   
   
   (u)	Any condition which results in the facility&#8217;s closure; and
   
   
   
   (v)	Any other occurrence or event which substantially interferes with the
   resident&#8217;s health, welfare, living arrangement, or well being, or in any
   way places the resident at risk.

   6225.4. The facility shall report any alleged or actual child abuse, neglect,
   or other risk to a resident&#8217;s health and safety in accordance with ยง
   6204.

   6225.5. The facility shall notify the Metropolitan Police Department (MPD),
   the contracting entity and, where applicable, the CSSD, within one (1) hour
   after learning that a resident is missing or absconding.

   6225.6. For residents placed in the facility by YSA, including residents under
   the supervision of the CSSD, within one (1) hour of notice to the MPD, the
   contracting entity, and, where applicable, the CSSD, as required under ยง
   6225.5, the facility shall file by fax a request for custody order of the
   absconding resident with the District of Columbia Superior Court Juvenile or
   Neglect clerk.

   6225.7. For residents placed in the facility by YSA, including residents under
   the supervision of the CSSD, within one (1) hour of faxing the request to the
   District of Columbia Superior Court Juvenile or Neglect clerk as required
   under ยง 6225.6, the facility shall fax a copy of the request for custody
   order to the contracting entity, the Office of the Corporation Counsel and,
   where applicable, the CSSD.

   6225.8. The facility shall immediately inform the MPD, the contracting entity,
   the Office of the Corporation Counsel, the District of Columbia Superior Court
   Juvenile or Neglect clerk and, where applicable, the CSSD, upon the missing or
   absconding resident&#8217;s return to the facility.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 8675, 8703 (September 21, 2001).
