                                  DC REGULATIONS

THE USE OF RESTRAINT (ยง 29-6274)

6274.1. The facility shall not administer any form of restraint unless the
   resident is physically endangering himself/herself or others and no other
   intervention has been or is likely to be effective in averting the danger.

   6274.2. The facility shall not administer any form of restraint as a method of
   discipline.

   6274.3. The facility shall train staff in the acceptable and safe methods of
   restraint and the need to minimize the use of restraint. Only staff who
   received specific training in the acceptable and safe methods of restraint
   shall utilize restraint. The facility shall document such training within each
   staff person&#8217;s personnel record.

   6274.4. The facility shall develop and follow written policies and procedures
   regarding the use of restraint, including:
   
   
   
   (a)	A list of the less restrictive interventions that shall be utilized, if
   appropriate, prior to the use of restraint;
   
   
   
   (b)	A list of the approved methods of restraint;
   
   
   
   (c)	For each form of restraint, a list of the least to most restrictive
   methods of restraint;
   
   
   
   (d)	A requirement that staff utilize the least restrictive method of restraint
   appropriate under the circumstances;
   
   
   
   (e)	The maximum duration for each form of restraint;
   
   
   
   (f)	The justification for each form of restraint;
   
   
   
   (g)	The procedures for administering each form of restraint;
   
   
   
   (h)	A list of the staff authorized to approve, administer, and monitor
   restraint;
   
   
   
   (i)	A description of the staff training on the utilization and administration
   of each form of restraint, which shall occur every six (6) months and be
   documented in a report maintained at each facility; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Procedures requiring a member of the staff who is not administering the
   restraint to monitor the resident being restrained.

   6274.5. The facility shall document in the resident&#8217;s case record any
   restraint and shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nature of the behavior warranting restraint;
   
   
   
   (b)	The date of the behavior warranting restraint;
   
   
   
   (c)	The restraint administered, including the duration of the restraint;
   
   
   
   (d)	The date the restraint was administered;
   
   
   
   (e)	An explanation of less restrictive intervention used prior to the
   restraint or the reason why such interventions were not utilized;
   
   
   
   (f)	The name and title of the person(s) who ordered, administered, and
   monitored the restraint; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The resident&#8217;s response to the restraint.

   6274.6. The facility shall administer restraint in a manner that is least
   likely to cause personal injury or pain.

   6274.7. The facility shall immediately release a restrained resident who
   exhibits any sign of significant physical distress during restraint and
   immediately shall provide the resident with any necessary medical assistance.

   6274.8. The facility shall release a restrained resident as soon as it is safe
   to do so.

   6274.9. The facility shall notify the contracting entity and the licensing
   agency, the resident&#8217;s parent(s), guardian(s) or custodian(s), the
   resident&#8217;s guardian ad litem and, where applicable, the CSSD, as soon as
   possible but in no event later than twenty-four (24) hours by oral methods and
   in writing no later than the next business day, of any use of restraint.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 8675, 8738 (September 21, 2001).
