                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES (ยง 29-6207)

6207.1. Applicants shall file a license application with the applicable
   licensing agency, including applications for an original annual license,
   applications for renewal of an annual license, and applications for
   modifications of a license. The applicable licensing agency shall not charge
   the facility a fee for any license or license application.

   6207.2. Upon receipt of an original annual license application or application
   for renewal of an annual license, the applicable licensing agency shall
   conduct a sanitary and environmental inspection of the facility and request a
   fire inspection of the facility.

   6207.3. Prior to issuing the original or renewal of an annual license, the
   applicable licensing agency shall conduct an on-site inspection of the
   facility to ensure compliance with this Chapter. The facility&#8217;s failure
   to cooperate during the inspection is grounds for denial of the original
   annual license application or application for renewal of an annual license.

   6207.4. A license shall be valid for the person(s), address, and type and
   capacity of facility stated on the license.

   6207.5. A license automatically expires upon a change of address of the
   facility.

   6207.6. Facilities that are planning to transfer ownership shall give the
   licensing agency at least sixty (60) calendar days advance written notice
   before transferring ownership of a facility, including, in the case of a
   corporate licensee, any transfer of the legal or beneficial ownership of ten
   percent (10%) or more of the stock of the corporation. Upon notification, the
   licensing agency may conduct an investigation or require reinspection to
   ensure that the facility will remain in compliance with this Chapter.

   6207.7. Each facility shall submit to the applicable licensing agency such
   periodic and special reports as may be required, including service, financial,
   personnel, and statistical information, and a periodic census of residents
   under care.

   6207.8. The licensing agency may enter the facility at any hour for the
   purpose of conducting an announced or unannounced inspection to check for
   compliance with this Chapter or any other law.

   6207.9. The facility&#8217;s records shall be made available to the applicable
   licensing agency and contracting entity upon request.

   6207.10. The licensing agency shall make all licensure and inspection reports
   available to the public upon request and shall notify CFSA, YSA, CSSD, the
   Department of Mental Health, the District of Columbia Public Schools, and any
   child-placing agency whenever a facility&#8217;s license is suspended,
   revoked, converted to a provisional or restricted license, or not renewed, as
   required by section 6 of the Act (D.C. Code ยง 3-805(d)).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 8675, 8686 (September 21, 2001).
