                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECORDKEEPING (§ 29-6224)

6224.1. Each facility shall maintain a separate written case record for each
   resident. Each facility shall make timely entries in a resident&#8217;s case
   record that are legible, dated and signed by the staff member or other person
   making the entry.

   6224.2. Each resident&#8217;s case record shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	The resident&#8217;s name, date and place of birth, social security
   number, date of admission, and citizenship;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the resident&#8217;s identifying features, including but
   not limited to sex, race, height, weight, color of hair, color of eyes, and
   identifying marks;
   
   
   
   (c)	A current photograph of the resident;
   
   
   
   (d)	The primary language or means of communication spoken and understood by
   the resident and the primary language used by the resident&#8217;s family, if
   other than English;
   
   
   
   (e)	Religious affiliation;
   
   
   
   (f)	The name, address, and telephone number of the resident&#8217;s parent(s)
   or other responsible family members, guardian, attorney, guardian ad litem,
   and referring agency or case worker, as applicable;
   
   
   
   (g)	Medical, mental health and immunization records, including but not limited
   to identified emergency medical needs, allergies, basic needs, and
   non-emergency medical conditions and physical infirmities, including all
   visible signs of illness or injury;
   
   
   
   (h)	Dental, vision and hearing records;
   
   
   
   (i)	Risk and safety assessments;
   
   
   
   (j)	Social history;
   
   
   
   (k)	Individual service plans and any changes or updates thereto;
   
   
   
   (l)	Discharge plan(s);
   
   
   
   (m)	Discipline and restraint records relating to the resident, where
   applicable;
   
   
   
   (n)	All correspondence relevant to the resident;
   
   
   
   (o)	Reports of unusual incidents, where applicable;
   
   
   
   (p)	Reports related to abuse, neglect, or other risks to the resident&#8217;s
   health and safety produced pursuant to § 6204;
   
   
   
   (q)	Any required consents to treatment;
   
   
   
   (r)	Any restrictions on visitation, mail, or telephone contacts;
   
   
   
   (s)	Court orders, if applicable;
   
   
   
   (t)	Admission and placement information;
   
   
   
   (u)	Signed notification of rights, grievance procedures and applicable consent
   to treatment protections;
   
   
   
   (v)	Records of the contracting entity pertaining to the resident;
   
   
   
   (w)	Records of CSSD pertaining to the resident, where applicable;
   
   
   
   (x)	Education records;
   
   
   
   (y)	Any evaluation or progress reports prepared for the resident;
   
   
   
   (z)	The resident&#8217;s grievance and disciplinary record;
   
   
   
   (aa)	Documentation of counseling and treatment sessions; and
   
   
   
   (bb)	Weekly documentation of the resident&#8217;s status and progress.

   6224.3. The facility shall maintain all information in the resident&#8217;s
   case record for so long as the resident is admitted in the facility. Upon the
   resident&#8217;s discharge from the facility, the facility shall turn over the
   original or a copy of the resident&#8217;s case record to the contracting
   entity.

   6224.4. The facility shall maintain each resident&#8217;s case record in a
   locked and secure location when unattended.

   6224.5. The facility, licensing agency, contracting entity, guardian ad litem
   and, where applicable, CSSD shall have access to the resident&#8217;s case
   record. No other person shall have access to the resident&#8217;s case record
   unless authorized in writing by the licensing agency.

   6224.6. Each facility shall maintain a record of each use of discipline and
   restraint and shall include in such record the information required under §§
   6273-74.

   6224.7. Each facility shall maintain at the facility easily accessible
   emergency information for each resident, which shall include the name,
   address, telephone number and relationship of a designated person to be
   contacted in case of an emergency, a person able to give consent for emergency
   medical treatment, if applicable and the resident&#8217;s physician or source
   of health care and health insurance information.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 8675, 8701 (September 21, 2001).
