                                  DC REGULATIONS

FIRE AND CARBON MONOXIDE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION (ยง 29-6233)

6233.1. The facility shall have an approved fire inspection prior to the
   effective date of licensure. The building shall, at all times, maintain the
   standards established under applicable building and fire codes, including but
   not limited to the District of Columbia Fire Prevention Code Supplement, Title
   12D DCMR.

   6233.2. The facility shall develop and implement a fire safety and evacuation
   plan approved by the Department of Fire and Emergency Medical Services. The
   facility shall fully inform and train staff and residents about the
   facility&#8217;s fire, safety and evacuation plan, including individual staff
   duties, location and operation of fire extinguishers, and telephone procedure
   for notifying the Department of Fire and Emergency Medical Services. Copies of
   the plan shall be posted throughout the facility and readily available to
   staff and residents at all times.

   6233.3. The facility shall conduct a minimum of one fire drill each month. The
   facility shall maintain a record of each fire drill.

   6233.4. The facility shall conduct a minimum of one fire extinguisher and one
   smoke detector inspection each month. The facility shall maintain a record of
   each inspection.

   6233.5. The facility shall maintain at least one working smoke detector on
   each floor and at least one additional smoke detector for each separate
   sleeping area not connected by a common hallway.

   6233.6. The facility shall maintain a working fire extinguisher, subject to
   annual inspection, for each cooking area and wing of the facility, and all
   areas used for electrical, gas, or other heating equipment.

   6233.7. The facility shall be equipped with at least one working carbon
   monoxide detector on each floor and at least one additional carbon monoxide
   detector for each sleeping area not connected by a common hallway.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 8675, 8713 (September 21, 2001).
