                                  DC REGULATIONS

LOCAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE (ยง 29-6218)

6218.1. Each facility shall have a local advisory committee made up of no less
   than three (3) members, including at least one (1) representative of the
   neighborhood in which the facility is located who is otherwise unaffiliated
   with the facility and who is not employed by the contracting entity or
   licensing agency.

   6218.2. Multiple facilities operated by the same person may have one (1) local
   advisory committee for all of the facilities so long as the local advisory
   committee includes at least one (1) representative of each neighborhood in
   which a facility is located.

   6218.3. The local advisory committee shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Meet with the facility administrator at the facility at least quarterly to
   review programs, policies, citizen complaints, and police contacts;
   
   
   
   (b)	Inform the contracting entity and licensing agency in writing of any
   situation that a majority of the committee believes warrants correction and
   that the facility has failed to correct within a reasonable period of time
   after being notified by the committee; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Report annually to the contracting entity and licensing agency on the
   number of admissions, the number, outcome, and length of stay of planned and
   unplanned discharges, staff turnover rate and efforts to reduce it, and
   program effectiveness in meeting the needs of residents.

   6218.4. The facility shall provide the local advisory committee the
   information necessary to prepare the report required under ยง 6218.3(c). The
   local advisory committee shall not have access to identifying information
   regarding individual residents.

   6218.5. The administrator and the local advisory committee shall biannually
   conduct an open community meeting to facilitate communication between the
   facility and the community.

   6218.6. The facility shall maintain copies of the minutes of the local
   advisory committee meetings.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 8675, 8694 (September 21, 2001).
