                                  DC REGULATIONS

TYPES OF LICENSES (§ 29-6206)

6206.1. All facilities, whether public or private, for profit or not for
   profit, shall be licensed in accordance with this Chapter no later than six
   (6) months after the effective date of this Chapter, provided however that the
   continued operation of a facility pending action by the licensing agency on an
   application for an original license or the renewal of an annual license shall
   not be deemed unlawful if a completed application timely was filed but,
   through no fault of the facility, the licensing agency failed to act on the
   application before the expiration of the facility&#8217;s authorized period of
   operation. A facility operating under this section shall comply with all other
   provisions of this Chapter.

   6206.2. An annual license permits a facility to operate a youth residential
   facility pursuant to the terms of this Chapter and sets forth the conditions
   under which the facility may operate. An annual license shall be valid for a
   period of no longer than one (1) year from the date it is issued. As provided
   in § 6209, an original annual license is the initial annual license for a new
   facility. As provided in § 6210, a facility obtains a subsequent annual
   license by applying for the renewal of an annual license.

   6206.3. As provided in this Chapter, the applicable licensing agency may:
   
   
   
   (a)	Modify an existing license;
   
   
   
   (b)	Grant a facility a variance;
   
   
   
   (c)	Impose civil fines, penalties, and related costs against a facility;
   
   
   
   (d)	Convert a license to a provisional license;
   
   
   
   (e)	Convert a license to a restricted license;
   
   
   
   (f)	Suspend an existing license; or
   
   
   
   (g)	Revoke an existing license.

   6206.4. A provisional license allows the facility to continue operating while
   attempting to satisfy the requirements of an annual license. A provisional
   license shall expire in no more than ninety (90) calendar days and shall be
   renewed no more than once (1).

   6206.5. A restricted license allows the facility to continue operating but
   prohibits the facility from accepting new residents or providing certain
   specified services that it otherwise would be authorized to provide. A
   restricted license shall expire in no more than ninety (90) calendar days and
   shall not be renewed.

   6206.6. As provided in § 6211, the applicable licensing agency may modify any
   existing license if the facility intends to operate under conditions which are
   different than those provided in the existing license. A facility whose
   license has been modified shall comply with the provisions of this Chapter.

   6206.7. As provided in § 6212, the applicable licensing agency may grant a
   facility permission to depart from a requirement of this Chapter. The
   applicable licensing agency may approve such a variance upon showing of
   hardship and manifest public need, provided that the variance is not
   deleterious to the residents&#8217; health, safety, or welfare.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 8675, 8685 (September 21, 2001).
