                                  DC REGULATIONS

FOREIGN EDUCATED APPLICANTS OF CONCEDED EMINENCE (ยง 17-4608)

4608.1. The Board may grant a license to practice medicine to an applicant
   educated in a foreign country who is of recognized eminence and standing in a
   field of medicine or medical research in the international community, if the
   applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Successfully completed medical education at a foreign medical school which
   is recognized or accredited by the foreign country, the World Health
   organization, or other organization satisfactory, to the Board;
   
   
   
   (b)	Holds a foreign medical license or registration certificate, in good
   standing, issued by a foreign country on the basis of an acceptable
   governmental examination;
   
   
   
   (c)	Practiced medicine for at least ten (10) years in patient care (excluding
   the two (2) years of postgraduate clinical training), five (5) years of which
   occurred immediately preceding the date application is made to the Board;
   
   
   
   (d)	Successfully completed two (2) years of post-graduate clinical training in
   accordance with ยง 4602.4 of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (e)	Possesses a valid standard certificate from the Educational Commission for
   Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG);
   
   
   
   (f)	Meets the examination requirements of ยง 4608 of this chapter; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Has been the recipient of honors and awards, and recognition in the
   international medical community, for achievements, contributions, or
   advancements in the field of medicine or medical research as evidenced by (1)
   publications in recognized scientific, medical or medical research journals,
   including American peer review journals, (2) recipient or nominee for
   international or national awards for distinguished contributions to the
   advancement of medicine or medical research, or (3) acknowledgement of
   expertise from recognized American authorities in the applicant&#8217;s field
   of medical specialty.

   4608.2. An applicant under this section shall furnish proof satisfactory to
   the Board of successful completion or satisfaction of the requirements of
   section 4608.1, and shall provide documentation sufficient to support the
   application including, but not limited to, certified transcripts of the
   applicant&#8217;s medical (or if applicable pre-medical) education, certified
   verification of licensure or registration to practice medicine in a foreign
   country, and a valid certificate from the ECFMG.

   4608.3. An applicant under this section shall arrange to have certified
   transcripts of all medical and pre-medical, if applicable, education sent
   directly from the educational institution(s) to the Board.

   4608.4. The Board may waive the educational transcript requirement of section
   4608.3 on a showing of extraordinary hardship if the applicant is able to
   establish by substitute documentation that the applicant possesses the
   requisite education and degrees.

   4608.5. If a document required by this section is in a language other than
   English, an applicant shall arrange for its translation into English by a
   translation service acceptable to the Board, and shall submit a notarized
   translation signed by the translator attesting to its accuracy.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 38 DCR 1653 (March 15, 1991).
