                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTINUING EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR PRACTICING PHYSICIANS (ยง 17-4614)

4614.1. Subject to ยง 4614.2, this section shall apply to actively practicing
   applicants for the renewal or reinstatement of a license for a term expiring
   December 31, 2006, and for subsequent terms.

   4614.2. Physicians actively practicing medicine in the District of Columbia
   shall submit proof of having completed fifty (50) American Medical Association
   Physician Recognition Award (AMA/PRA) Category I hours of Board of Medicine
   approved continuing education credit during the two-year period preceding the
   date the license expires.

   4614.3. For purposes of this section, a physician is actively practicing
   medicine if each calendar year the physician meets the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Maintains a practice of one thousand (1,000) patient-visits per year;
   
   
   
   (b)	Is employed full-time in medical teaching, research, or administration; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Is employed part-time in medical teaching, research, or administration and
   maintains a practice of five-hundred (500) patient-visits per year.

   4614.4. An applicant under this section shall prove completion of required
   continuing education credits by submitting with the application the following
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the program, its location, and a description of the subject
   matter covered;
   
   
   
   (b)	The dates on which the applicant attended the program;
   
   
   
   (c)	The hours of credit claimed; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Verification of completion of the credits by signature or stamp of the
   sponsor.

   4614.5. This section shall not apply to applicants for an initial license by
   national examination, reciprocity, or endorsement, nor shall it apply to
   applicants for the first renewal of a license granted by examination. Neither
   shall the requirement for continuing education apply to physicians
   specifically exempted due to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Hardship;
   
   
   
   (b)	Disability;
   
   
   
   (c)	Serious illness;
   
   
   
   (d)	Service in the United States Congress;
   
   
   
   (e)	Military service or other circumstances as the Board deems appropriate if
   supported by adequate documentation acceptable to the Board; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Postgraduate training pursuant to ยง 4611.

   4614.6. Physicians seeking such an exemption shall submit a written request
   with appropriate documentation including a description of circumstances
   sufficient to justify such an exemption.

   4614.7. A request for an exemption shall be submitted to the Board in a
   sufficient time period prior to the expiration of the license to receive a
   determination from the Board as to whether an exemption shall be granted.

   4614.8. A physician suspended for disciplinary reasons shall not be exempt
   from from the requirements of this section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 4796 (June 16, 2006).
