                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRE-LICENSURE PRACTICE BY POSTGRADUATE PHYSICIANS (§ 17-4611)

4611.1. For purposes of this section, the following terms have the meanings
   indicated:
   
   
   
   	“Postgraduate physician” means:
   
   
   
   (a)  	A person who: (1) holds a degree in medicine or osteopathy; and (2) is
   enrolled in a postgraduate clinical training residency program prior to
   licensure in any jurisdiction in the U.S.; or
   
   
   
   (b)	A person who: (1) has completed a residency program in a postgraduate
   clinical training program; (2) is enrolled in a postgraduate clinical training
   fellowship program; and (3)  is licensed in any jurisdiction in the U.S..
   
   
   
   	“Medical training license” means a limited medical license issued only to
   a postgraduate physician.
   
   
   
   “Medical training registration” means documentation and assignment of a
   registration number to a registrant, as defined in this chapter, only for the
   purpose of participating in a rotation within a postgraduate clinical training
   residency program.
   
   
   
   	“Medical training licensee” means a person who holds a valid medical
   training license issued by the Board.
   
   
   
   	“Medical training registrant” means a person who is enrolled in a
   postgraduate clinical training residency program in the District,
   participating in a rotation within that program for no more than 90 days.
   
   
   
   4611.2     	Medical training licenses shall be classified as follows:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Type I(A), who are qualifying applicants that are U.S. or Canadian
   medical school-trained postgraduate physicians;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Type I(B), who are qualifying applicants that are foreign medical
   school-trained postgraduate physicians enrolled in a postgraduate clinical
   training residency program; or
   
   
   
   (c) 	Type II, who are qualifying applicants that are foreign trained medical
   physicians participating in an Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical
   Education (ACGME), American Osteopathic Association (AOA), or Board approved
   postgraduate clinical training fellowship program.

   4611.3. Unless the postgraduate physician qualifies for, and receives, a
   medical training license or medical training registration to practice medicine
   in the District, a postgraduate physician may not practice medicine in a
   clinical training program.

   4611.4. A postgraduate physician shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be enrolled with one or more institutions sponsoring the clinical training
   program(s) describing the terms and conditions of the postgraduate
   physician&#8217;s employment, or participation in the program, which shall be
   kept on file at the sponsoring institution;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Submit, not later than 90 days prior to the commencement of the postgraduate
   physician’s participation in a clinical training program in the District,
   the documentation required for a new medical training license application.  A
   postgraduate physician may submit a late application for a new medical
   training license less than 90 days prior to the commencement of the clinical
   training program only after paying a late application fee;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Submit, prior to the commencement of each training year, the documentation
   required for a medical training license renewal application for review no
   earlier than March 1st but not later than May 31st of the training year;
   
   
   
   (d)	Inform, and permit the training program to notify, the Board in writing
   when the postgraduate physician leaves a clinical training program before the
   scheduled ending date of the program, specifying the reason for leaving as
   academic or nonacademic reasons;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Grant the Board access to, and permit the training program to disclose, all
   postgraduate education records, to the extent the disclosure does not violate
   any District or federal laws;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be supervised by a licensed physician who is: (1) a member of the medical
   staff of the medical institution or medical facility through which the
   clinical training program takes place; and (2) approved by the clinical
   training program to be a supervising physician;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If it is the postgraduate physician’s intention to continue to practice
   medicine in the District, obtain a license to practice medicine in the
   District within five (5) years of having graduated from a United States or
   Canadian medical school or upon the completion of a postgraduate clinical
   training residency program, whichever comes first, unless the postgraduate
   physician is enrolled in a seven (7) year postgraduate clinical training
   program in surgery, in which case the postgraduate physician shall obtain a
   license to practice medicine in the District within seven (7) years of having
   graduated from a United States or Canadian medical school or upon the
   completion of a postgraduate clinical training residency program, whichever
   comes first;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Identify himself or herself as such at all times when practicing medicine;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Comply with the standards of conduct for a licensed physician set forth in
   this chapter and the Act;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Practice medicine for no more than the maximum number of hours permitted by
   the ACGME; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Practice medicine only in a clinical training program where the postgraduate
   physician is enrolled.

   4611.5. Unless waived by the Board, a postgraduate physician applying for a
   medical training license or registration shall submit, as appropriate, or
   cause to be submitted, to the Board for consideration the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A completed application form, with a signed statement attesting to the truth
   and accuracy of its contents;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A photograph taken not more than three (3) months prior to submission, whose
   dimensions are at least two inches (2 in.) by two inches (2 in.), which shall
   be affixed to the application;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Graduate Medical Education (GME) program director’s attestation that the
   postgraduate physician has graduated from an accredited U.S. or foreign
   medical school;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If a graduate of a medical school outside the U.S. or Canada, the original of
   a currently valid Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG)
   certification;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If applicable, documentation verifying name change;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The results of a criminal background check, completed pursuant to D.C.
   Official Code § 3-1205.22 (2001) and Chapter 85 of this title;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Payment of the license fee plus the cost of the criminal background check;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The GME program director’s attestation verifying the applicant’s
   acceptance into the program and the commencement date of the program;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The GME program director’s attestation that the applicant for a Type I
   medical training license has taken and received a passing score on (1) the
   United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) Step 1 and both parts of
   Step 2; or (2) the Comprehensive Osteopathic Medical Licensure Examination
   (COMLEX) Levels 1 and 2;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The GME program director’s attestation that the applicant for a Type II
   medical training license has taken and received a passing score on (1) the
   United States Medical Licensing Exam (USMLE) Step 1, both parts of Step 2, and
   Step 3; or (2) the Comprehensive Osteopathic Medical Licensure Examination
   (COMLEX) Levels 1 and 2;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The GME program director’s attestation of the accuracy and veracity of his
   or her attestations described in § 4611.5.  The attestation shall be received
   by the Board no later than May 31st of each year; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If requested, any additional information the Board considers necessary to
   properly evaluate the applicant’s competence and character.
   
   
   
   4611.6     	Each GME program director shall submit to the Board by March 31st
   of each year a complete list of ACGME, AOA, and Board approved programs within
   their training institution including the names, specialty training, and
   participation year of all participants.  The list of ACGME, AOA, and Board
   approved programs within the training institution, including the names,
   specialty training, and participation year of all participants may be amended
   until April 30th of that year.

   4611.7. The Board, in its discretion, may waive any requirement for obtaining
   a medical training license or registration upon good cause.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A medical training license shall be issued for a period not to exceed one (1)
   year.

   4611.9. A postgraduate physician, as defined in paragraph 4611.1(a), may
   practice pursuant to this section for a maximum of five (5) years in a
   postgraduate clinical training program if the postgraduate physician has a
   valid agreement with the medical institution sponsoring the clinical training
   residency program, unless the postgraduate clinical training program is a
   seven (7) year surgery program, in which case the postgraduate physician may
   practice pursuant to this section for a maximum of seven (7) years:
   
   
   
   (a)	Type I(A) licensees &#8211; the five (5) or seven (7) year period for
   graduates of U.S. and Canadian medical schools shall begin with the graduation
   from medical school; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Type I(B) licensees &#8211; the five (5) or seven (7) year period for
   graduates of foreign medical schools, other than Canadian medical schools,
   shall begin at the beginning of an approved U.S. postgraduate clinical
   training residency program.

   4611.10. A postgraduate physician, as defined in paragraph 4611.1(b), may
   renew a Type II license one (1) time pursuant to this section if the
   postgraduate physician has a valid agreement with the institution,
   organization, or agency sponsoring the clinical training fellowship program. 
   Any subsequent renewals of a Type II license may be approved at the discretion
   of the Board.

   4611.11. A postgraduate physician may be disciplined for conduct that violates
   the Act or this chapter. The Board may deny an applicant a license, or take
   other disciplinary action against a student or postgraduate physician who is
   found to have violated the Act or this chapter, in accordance with Chapter 41
   of this title.
   
   
   
   4611.12   	A postgraduate physician shall be exempt from the payment of the
   application fee, provided such postgraduate physician is participating in a
   short term, required, ACGME or AOA approved training program rotation of no
   more than ninety (90) days.  Such participants shall enroll as medical
   training registrants with the Board prior to commencing the rotation.  Such
   participants, if licensed in another state, may either enroll as a medical
   training licensee or apply for full licensure in the District of Columbia.

   4611.13. An applicant who submits an application to renew more than sixty (60)
   days after the expiration date of the medical training license shall be
   subject to payment of a renewal late fee.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 5999, 6009 (August 5, 1988); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 6028 (June 11, 2004); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 6834 (July 22, 2005); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 9479, 9480 (August 10, 2012);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 5134 (April 5, 2013).
