                                  DC REGULATIONS

DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS, NOTICE, AND HEARING (ยง 17-1520)

1520.1. A person may make a complaint to the Board regarding a
   licensee&#8217;s conduct by contacting the Department in writing.

   1520.2. The Department shall forward the written complaint to the Board and
   the Board shall review the complaint and decide whether to direct the
   Department to investigate the matter.

   1520.3. The Board, after receiving an investigation report from the Department
   regarding a complaint alleging that a licensee violated any provision of this
   chapter or the Act, may vote to initiate disciplinary proceedings against a
   licensee. A hearing is required when the Board intends to pursue one of the
   following penalties:
   
   
   
   (a)	A civil fine;
   
   
   
   (b)	A written reprimand;
   
   
   
   (c)	A license suspension;
   
   
   
   (d)	A refusal to renew a license;
   
   
   
   (e)	A license revocation; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Deny a license application pursuant to the reasons set forth in section
   1505.1(b) of this chapter.

   1520.4. If, by majority vote, the full Board elects to refer the matter to the
   Office of the Attorney General to initiate disciplinary proceedings, the Board
   may, instead of conducting the disciplinary hearing before the full Board,
   elect to convene a small committee of three (3) or more Board members for the
   purposes of holding the disciplinary hearing and rendering a recommended
   decision.

   1520.5. When a small committee conducts a disciplinary hearing in lieu of the
   full Board, the full Board must ratify the committee&#8217;s recommended
   decision for that decision to have legal effect against the applicant or
   licensee.

   1520.6. Notwithstanding subsections 1520.3 and 1520.4, and pursuant to D.C.
   Official Code ยง 2-1831.03(i), the Board may, by majority vote, elect to refer
   a disciplinary hearing to the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH) for
   adjudication. If the Board elects to refer a hearing to OAH for adjudication,
   the Board shall abide by the applicable law and regulations governing OAH
   hearings, decisions, and orders, and shall only assume jurisdiction over the
   matter in an appellate capacity.

   1520.7. When the Board elects to refer the matter to the Office of the
   Attorney General to initiate disciplinary proceedings, the Office of the
   Attorney General shall prepare a notice of hearing and shall serve the
   document upon the applicant or licensee personally or by certified mail no
   less than thirty (30) days before the hearing. If the Board has elected to
   have OAH conduct the hearing, the Office of the Attorney General shall comply
   with the notice procedures implemented by OAH as set forth in 1 DCMR Chapter
   28 and 1 DCMR Chapter 29, whichever is applicable, and not the notice
   procedures set forth in this chapter unless otherwise required by OAH.

   1520.8. The notice of hearing shall state that the Board intends to hold a
   hearing on the matter not less than thirty (30) days after service of the
   notice is made upon the licensee. The notice shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The time, place, and nature of the hearing;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement of legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is
   to be held;
   
   
   
   (c)	A reference to the particular section of the statutes and rules involved;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	A short and plain statement of the matters asserted.

   1520.9. The notice of hearing shall indicate that the applicant or licensee
   shall have the right to appear with or without counsel, shall have the right
   to cross-examine witnesses in his or her defense, and shall have the right to
   produce evidence and witnesses.

   1520.10. If the applicant or licensee fails or refuses to appear for the
   scheduled hearing and the Board has not granted a continuance, the Board may
   proceed with the hearing and render a decision and order.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8783 (September 7, 2007).
