                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATIONS (ยง 17-1503)

1503.1. A person applying for licensure as a Professional Engineer or
   Professional Land Surveyor shall present his/her qualifications to the Board
   on forms provided by the Board.
   
   
   
   Professional Engineers are licensed by discipline and applicants shall select
   the discipline in which he or she seeks licensure from the choices available
   on the application.

   1503.2. A person who believes that he or she has the necessary qualifications
   for licensure according to the laws of the District of Columbia as a
   Professional Engineer or a Professional Land Surveyor, except for that of
   experience, may submit an application for licensure as an Engineer Intern or a
   Land Surveyor Intern.
   
   
   
   Engineer Interns are licensed by discipline and applicants shall select the
   discipline in which he or she seeks licensure from the choices available on
   the application.

   1503.3. A person who is within one (1) semester of completing a baccalaureate
   degree in engineering at an educational institution approved by the Board may
   submit an application to the Board for licensure as an Engineer Intern and, at
   the Board&#8217;s discretion, may be permitted to take the fundamentals
   examination prior to graduation.

   1503.4. A person applying for licensure by examination shall not register for
   the examination unless approved by the Board.

   1503.5. All applications shall be completed as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	All applications for licensure shall be made on the forms provided by the
   Board, but when the space provided on a Board form is inadequate,
   supplementary sheets provided by the Board (or if not provided by the Board,
   sheets of white printer or photocopy paper 8.5 x 11 inches) are to be used;
   
   
   
   (b)	In order to allow sufficient time for processing and for scheduling
   examinations, all applications that require examinations shall be filed with
   the Board at least ninety (90) days before the date set for the appropriate
   examinations;
   
   
   
   (c)	Withholding information, providing statements that are untrue, or
   misrepresenting facts may be cause for denial of an application, or if
   discovered after a license has been issued by the Board, suspension,
   reprimand, or revocation of the license;
   
   
   
   (d)	An applicant shall supply correct addresses for all references. In the
   event that a reference fails to respond to a Board inquiry, the Board may
   delay processing an application until either the reference replies to the
   Board or the applicant provides another reference that replies to the Board;
   and
   
   
   
   (e)	In relating experience, the applicant must account for all employment or
   work experience for the period of time that has elapsed since the beginning of
   the experience record. If the applicant is not employed, or is employed in
   other kinds of work, this should be indicated in the experience record.

   1503.6. Applications for licensure by reciprocity or endorsement pursuant to
   D.C. Official Code ยง 47-2853.12(b), properly executed and submitted with
   verification by the National Council of Examiners for Engineering and
   Surveying (NCEES), shall be accepted in lieu of the same information that is
   required to appear on the application form provided by the Board.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8783 (September 7, 2007).
