                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS (ยง 17-1509)

1509.1. A person applying for licensure as a Professional Engineer shall prove
   to the satisfaction of the Board that he or she has obtained four (4) or more
   years of experience indicating that he or she may be competent to practice
   engineering. In evaluating an applicant&#8217;s experience, the Board shall
   consider the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Experience must be progressive on engineering projects to indicate that it
   is of increasing quality and requiring greater responsibility.
   
   
   
   (b)	Only work of an engineering nature, which follows graduation from a Board
   approved curriculum, is creditable.
   
   
   
   (c)	Experience shall not have been obtained in violation of the Act.
   
   
   
   (d)	Experience gained in the armed services, to be creditable, must be of a
   character equivalent to that which would have been gained in the civilian
   sector doing similar work. The Board expects that the applicant, while in the
   armed services, served in an engineering or engineering-related group.
   
   
   
   (e)	Experience should be gained under the supervision of a licensed
   professional engineer or, if the experience was gained without supervision, an
   explanation should be provided showing why the experience should be considered
   acceptable.
   
   
   
   (f)	For sales experience to be creditable, it must be demonstrated that
   engineering principles were required and used in gaining the experience.
   
   
   
   (g)	Teaching experience, to be creditable, must be in engineering or
   engineering-related courses at an advanced level in a college or university
   offering an engineering curriculum of four (4) years or more that is approved
   by the Board.
   
   
   
   (h)	Experience gained in engineering research and design projects by members
   of an engineering faculty where the Board approves the curriculum is
   creditable.
   
   
   
   (i)	Successful completion of graduate study leading to the master&#8217;s
   degree in engineering that has followed a baccalaureate degree in engineering
   may be used for credit for one (1) year&#8217;s experience. If the Ph.D. in
   engineering is completed under the same conditions, two (2) years&#8217; total
   experience may be credited. The two (2) years&#8217; credit includes the one
   (1) year for the master&#8217;s degree. If the Ph.D. is obtained without the
   master&#8217;s degree, the credit for experience may be two (2) years.
   
   
   
   (j)	Experience may not be anticipated. The experience must have been gained by
   the time of the application.
   
   
   
   (k)	Experience in construction, to be creditable, must demonstrate the
   application of engineering principles.
   
   
   
   (l)	Experience should include demonstration of knowledge of engineering
   mathematics, physical and applied science, properties of materials, and the
   fundamental principles of engineering design.
   
   
   
   (m)	Experience should include demonstration of the application of engineering
   principles to the practical solution of engineering problems.

   1509.2. A person applying for licensure as a Professional Land Surveyor shall
   prove to the satisfaction of the Board that he or she has obtained experience
   indicating that he or she may be competent to practice land surveying. In
   evaluating an applicant&#8217;s experience, the Board shall consider the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Experience on land surveying projects shall be progressive to indicate
   that it is of increasing quality and requiring greater responsibility on the
   part of the applicant.
   
   
   
   (b)	Experience shall not be obtained in violation of the Act.
   
   
   
   (c)	Experience gained in the armed services, to be creditable, must be of a
   character equivalent to that which would have been gained in the civilian
   sector doing similar work. The Board expects that the applicant, while in the
   armed services, served in a land surveying group.
   
   
   
   (d)	Experience should be gained under the supervision of a licensed
   Professional Land Surveyor or if the experience was gained without
   supervision, an explanation should be provided showing why the experience
   should be considered acceptable.
   
   
   
   (e)	Teaching experience, to be creditable, must be at an advanced level in a
   land surveying curriculum approved by the Board.
   
   
   
   (f)	A substantial portion of the experience must be spent in charge of work
   related to property conveyance and/or boundary line determination.
   
   
   
   (g)	The applicant must demonstrate adequate experience in the technical field
   aspects of the profession.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8783 (September 7, 2007).
