                                  DC REGULATIONS

DECLARATORY ORDERS (ยง 17-1525)

1525.1. A declaratory order is a District of Columbia agency response to a
   request by a member of the public who has inquired about the applicability of
   the Act, these rules, or any other statute enforceable by the Board, to
   terminate a controversy other than a contested case or to remove uncertainty
   regarding the application of a rule or statute to a specific factual
   situation.

   1525.2. The Board may issue a declaratory order to a person who is affected by
   a statutory provision or rule and who makes a written inquiry regarding the
   Board&#8217;s interpretation of any statutory provision or of any regulation
   or order of the Board.

   1525.3. Sufficient facts must be supplied to the Board in the request to
   provide the Board with a basis for the issuance of a declaratory order and
   must include in detail the reasons for uncertainty as to the applicability of
   the Act, these rules, or other statutes enforceable by the Board or state in
   detail why a controversy exists.

   1525.4. A request for declaratory ruling must specifically state that it is a
   request for a declaratory order.

   1525.5. A declaratory order will be provided in accordance with the laws of
   the District of Columbia.

   1525.6. The Board may decline to issue a declaratory order for any reason
   permitted by law and any decision by the Board not to issue such an order
   shall not be subject to review by the Mayor or any court in the District of
   Columbia.

   1525.7. All facts set out in a request for a declaratory order shall be
   supported by sworn affidavit of the requestor. If the Board determines that
   further facts are necessary, it shall request the writer to provide those
   facts by written affidavit or may receive those facts by stipulation at a
   non-contested case fact-finding hearing.

   1525.8. Any declaratory order issued by the Board shall be binding on the
   requestor as regards the state of facts established pursuant to subsection
   1525.3. If the requestor is a licensee, failure to adhere to the decision of
   the Board, as set out in the declaratory order, shall subject the requestor to
   the issuance of a notice to show cause why he or she should not be disciplined
   pursuant to D.C. Official Code ยง 47-2853.17. If the requestor is an applicant
   for a license and fails to adhere to the decision of the Board, the Board
   shall take such steps as are necessary and authorized by law to enforce the
   provisions of its declaratory order.

   1525.9. Any requestor who is aggrieved by a declaratory order or who disagrees
   with the declaratory order in any respect may appeal the order by petitioning
   the Board, in writing, within twenty (20) calendar days after issuance of the
   declaratory order, to reconsider its order, and by setting forth in detail
   newly discovered facts or by setting forth legal argument which shows one (1)
   or more errors of law in the Board&#8217;s order or seeking judicial review of
   the Board&#8217;s order as permitted under D.C. Official Code ยง 2-508.

   1525.10. All declaratory orders of the Board determined to be in the public
   interest in accordance with D.C. Official Code ยง 2-552, shall be published in
   the D.C. Register and shall be available for public inspection and copying at
   a reasonable charge at the offices of the Board.

   1525.11. Any declaratory order issued by the Board shall set out with
   particularity the Board&#8217;s findings of fact and conclusions of law as
   regards the matter at issue. If the circumstances so warrant, the declaratory
   order may include an order by the Board to the requestor to cease and desist
   any practice or activity that violates applicable statutes or this subtitle.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8783 (September 7, 2007).
