                                  DC REGULATIONS

EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS (ยง 17-1508)

1508.1. Applicants for a Professional Engineer license must have obtained a
   four-year baccalaureate engineering degree from an engineering program
   approved by the Board. The Board will approve baccalaureate degree programs
   that meet the following standards:
   
   
   
   (a)	The baccalaureate engineering degree program held accreditation from the
   Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for
   Engineering Technology (EAC/ABET) at the time the applicant received the
   degree;
   
   
   
   (b)	The baccalaureate engineering degree program received accreditation from
   EAC/ABET within three years after the date that the applicant received the
   degree; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The baccalaureate engineering degree program was not accredited by
   EAC/ABET but, within two years of the date that the applicant received the
   degree from the unaccredited institution, the Board has determined, in
   accordance with EAC/ABET standards, that the program is substantially
   equivalent to programs that are accredited by EAC/ABET.

   1508.2. Applicants for a Professional Land Surveyor license using a four-year
   baccalaureate land surveying degree to satisfy the Board&#8217;s education
   requirements must have obtained their degree from a land surveying program
   approved by the Board. The Board shall approve land surveying programs that
   meet the following standards:
   
   
   
   (a)	The college or university awarding the degree must be accredited by the
   accrediting agency or state approval agency recognized by the U.S. Secretary
   of Education as a &#8220;reliable authority as to the quality of postsecondary
   education&#8221; within the meaning of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as
   amended (HEA), located in the state or territory where the main campus of the
   college or university is located;
   
   
   
   (b)	The land surveying program was accredited by EAC/ABET, the Applied Science
   Accreditation Commission of ABET (ASAC/ABET), the Technology Accreditation
   Commission of ABET (TAC/ABET);
   
   
   
   (c)	The land surveying program was evaluated and approved by the Board as
   being substantially equivalent to those curricula that are accredited by ABET
   prior to the date that the applicant received the degree; or
   
   
   
   (d)	The land surveying program received accreditation from one of the ABET
   Commissions within three years after the date that the applicant received the
   degree.

   1508.3. A non-degreed applicant for a Professional Land Surveyor license by
   examination must demonstrate the attainment of a minimum of 12 years of
   education and experience, having taken at least one course of land surveying
   at an institution accredited, at the time the course was taken, by an
   accrediting agency or state approval agency recognized by the U.S. Secretary
   of Education as a &#8220;reliable authority as to the quality of postsecondary
   education&#8221; within the meaning of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as
   amended (HEA). Acceptable courses are those courses in the various kinds and
   facets of land surveying that have been evaluated and approved by this Board
   as being substantially equivalent to those curricula that are accredited by
   ABET. Acceptable experience must meet the requirements of section 1509 of this
   Chapter.

   1508.4. A non-degreed applicant for a Land Surveyor Intern license by
   examination must demonstrate the attainment of a minimum of 8 years of
   education and experience, having taken at least one course of surveying at an
   institution accredited, at the time the course was taken, by an accrediting
   agency or state approval agency recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education
   as a &#8220;reliable authority as to the quality of postsecondary
   education&#8221; within the meaning of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as
   amended (HEA). Acceptable courses are those courses in the various kinds and
   facets of land surveying that have been evaluated and approved by this Board
   as being substantially equivalent to those curricula that are accredited by
   ABET. Acceptable experience must meet the requirements of section 1509 of this
   Chapter.

   1508.5. Applicants are responsible for verifying the approval status of degree
   programs used to satisfy the Board&#8217;s education requirements and may do
   so by contacting the Board.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8783 (September 7, 2007).
