                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT OF HEARINGS (ยง 17-1521)

1521.1. The chairperson of the Board shall preside over hearings and shall
   rule on all questions of evidence and procedure with the advice of the
   attorney advisor for the Board.

   1521.2. The Board shall apply the rules of evidence governing civil matters in
   the Superior Court of the District of Columbia and, pursuant to D.C. Official
   Code ยง 2-509, shall exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious
   evidence.

   1521.3. Objection to evidentiary offers may be made by any party to the
   proceeding and objections shall be noted in the record.

   1521.4. When a hearing will be expedited and the interest of the parties
   involved will not be prejudiced substantially, any part of the evidence may be
   received in written form.

   1521.5. Documentary evidence may be received in the form of copies or excerpts
   if the original is not readily available.

   1521.6. The Assistant Attorney General litigating the matter may elect to
   address the Board with an opening statement that may be followed by a
   statement from the licensee. After opening statements are made, the Assistant
   Attorney General litigating the matter shall present evidence to the Board.
   Upon the conclusion of the government&#8217;s case, the licensee may present
   evidence to the Board. Parties may cross-examine and re-direct witnesses, and
   may re-examine their own witnesses if permitted to do so by the Board. Closing
   statements by both parties are permitted.

   1521.7. The Board may take judicial notice of cognizable facts or generally
   recognized technical or scientific facts within the Board&#8217;s specialized
   knowledge.

   1521.8. Parties shall be notified either before or during the hearing, or by
   reference in preliminary reports or otherwise, of the material noticed,
   including any staff memoranda or data, and they shall be afforded an
   opportunity to contest the material so noticed.

   1521.9. The Board may utilize its experience, technical competence, and
   specialized knowledge in evaluating evidence.

   1521.10. The record of hearing shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	All motions, intermediate rulings, and depositions;
   
   
   
   (b)	All documentary evidence received or reviewed;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement of matters officially noted;
   
   
   
   (d)	Offers of proof, objections, and rulings thereon;
   
   
   
   (e)	Proposed findings and exceptions;
   
   
   
   (f)	Any decision, opinion, or report by the chairperson presiding at the
   hearing; and
   
   
   
   (g)	All testimony and oral argument presented at the hearing that is recorded
   for transcription purposes.

   1521.11. The Board shall issue an order within ninety (90) days of the date of
   the close of the hearing or the record. It shall include and shall state
   separately:
   
   
   
   (a)	Findings of fact that are based exclusively on the evidence and on matters
   officially noticed, supported by concise and explicit statements of the
   underlying facts supporting the findings; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Conclusions of law.

   1521.12. The licensee shall be delivered a copy of the decision by hand
   delivery or by first class mail, postage prepaid, with return receipt
   requested. The attorneys of record for both parties shall be mailed a copy of
   the order.

   1521.13. Upon an order by the Board in which the licensee is found in
   violation of the charges proffered, the Board may levy a civil fine not to
   exceed $5000.00, and/or reprimand, suspend, refuse to renew, or revoke the
   licensee&#8217;s license.

   1521.14. At its discretion, the Board may stay, permanently or temporarily,
   the execution of its order conditioned on any provision the Board believes
   appropriate under the circumstances for the case.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8783 (September 7, 2007).
