                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT (ยง 17-1517)

1517.1. In order to safeguard the life, health, property and welfare of the
   public and to establish and maintain a high standard of integrity, skills, and
   practice in the professions of engineering and land surveying, the following
   rules of professional conduct shall be binding upon every person holding a
   certificate of licensure as a Professional Engineer or Professional Land
   Surveyor (licensee), and on all business entities authorized to offer or
   perform engineering or land surveying services in the District of Columbia.

   1517.2. All persons licensed under the provisions of this Chapter are charged
   with having knowledge of the existence of the rules of professional conduct,
   and shall be deemed to be familiar with their several provisions and to
   understand them.

   1517.3. The licensee shall conduct the practice in order to protect the public
   health, safety, and welfare.

   1517.4. The licensee shall, at all times, recognize the primary obligation to
   protect the public in the performance of his or her professional duties. If
   the licensee&#8217;s engineering or land surveying judgment is overruled under
   circumstances where the safety, health, and welfare of the public are
   endangered, the licensee shall inform the employer, the contractor, and the
   appropriate regulatory agency of the possible consequences of the situation.

   1517.5. The licensee shall perform services only in areas of the
   licensee&#8217;s competence and:
   
   
   
   (a)	Shall undertake to perform engineering and land surveying assignments only
   when qualified by education and experience in the specific technical field of
   professional engineering or land surveying involved.
   
   
   
   (b)	May accept an assignment or project requiring education or experience
   outside of the licensee&#8217;s own field of competence, but only to the
   extent that the services are restricted to those portions or disciplines of
   the project in which the licensee is qualified. All other portions or
   disciplines of such project shall be performed by associates, consultants, or
   employees who are licensed and competent in those portions or disciplines.
   
   
   
   (c)	Shall not affix the signature or seal to any engineering or land surveying
   plan or document dealing with subject matter for which the licensee lacks
   competence by virtue of education or experience, nor to any such plan or
   document not prepared under the licensee&#8217;s direct supervisory control.
   
   
   
   1.	Direct supervisory control (responsible charge) requires a licensee or
   employee to carry out client contacts, provide internal and external financial
   control, oversee employee training, and exercise control and supervision over
   all job requirements to include research, planning, design, field supervision
   and work product review.
   
   
   
   i.	A licensee shall not contract with a non-licensed individual to provide
   these professional services.
   
   
   
   ii.	Research, such as title searches and soil testing, may be contracted to a
   non-licensed individual, provided that individual is qualified or licensed to
   provide such service and provided the licensee reviews the work.
   
   
   
   2.	The licensee may affix the seal and signature to drawings and documents
   depicting the work of two or more professionals provided it is designated by a
   note under the seal the specific subject matter for which each is responsible.

   1517.6. The licensee shall issue public statements only in an objective and
   truthful manner and:
   
   
   
   (a)	Shall be objective and truthful in all professional reports, statements,
   or testimony. The licensee shall include all relevant and pertinent
   information in such reports, statements, or testimony.
   
   
   
   (b)	When serving as an expert or technical witness before any court,
   commission, or other tribunal, shall express an opinion only when it is
   founded upon adequate knowledge of the facts in issue, upon a background of
   technical competence in the subject matter, and upon honest conviction of the
   accuracy and propriety of the licensee&#8217;s testimony.
   
   
   
   (c)	Shall issue no statements, criticisms, or arguments on engineering or land
   surveying matters connected with public policy which are inspired or paid for
   by an interested party, or parties, unless the licensee has prefaced the
   comment by explicitly identifying the licensee&#8217;s name, by disclosing the
   identities of the party or parties on whose behalf the licensee is speaking,
   and by revealing the existence of any pecuniary interest the licensee may have
   in the instant matters.
   
   
   
   (d)	Shall not attempt to injure, maliciously or falsely, directly or
   indirectly, the professional reputation, prospects, practice, or employment of
   another engineer or land surveyor, nor indiscriminately criticize another
   engineer or land surveyor&#8217;s work in public. Indiscriminate criticism
   includes statements without valid basis or cause; statements that are not
   objective and truthful; or statements that fail to include all relevant and
   pertinent information. If the licensee believes that another engineer or land
   surveyor is guilty of misconduct or illegal practice, such information shall
   be presented to the Board.

   1517.7. The licensee shall avoid conflicts of interest and:
   
   
   
   (a)	Shall promptly inform the employer or client and any reviewing agency of
   any business association, interests, or circumstances that could influence
   judgment or the quality of services.
   
   
   
   (b)	Shall not accept compensation, financial or otherwise, from more than one
   party for services on the same project, or for services pertaining to the same
   project, unless the circumstances are fully disclosed to, and agreed to, by
   all interested parties.
   
   
   
   (c)	Shall not solicit or accept financial or other valuable considerations
   from material or equipment suppliers for specifying their products.
   
   
   
   (d)	Shall not solicit or accept gratuities, directly or indirectly, from
   contractors, their agents, or other parties dealing with the client or
   employer in connection with work for which the licensee is responsible.
   
   
   
   (e)	When in public service as a member, advisor, or employee of a governmental
   body or department, shall not participate in considerations or actions with
   respect to services provided by the licensee or the licensee&#8217;s
   organization in private engineering and land surveying practices.
   
   
   
   (f)	Shall not solicit or accept an engineering or land surveying contract from
   a governmental body on which a principal or officer of the licensee&#8217;s
   organization serves as a member.
   
   
   
   (g)	Shall not attempt to supplant another engineer or land surveyor in a
   particular employment after becoming aware that the other has been selected
   for the employment.

   1517.8. The licensee shall solicit or accept work only based on qualifications
   and:
   
   
   
   (a)	Shall not offer, either directly or indirectly, to pay a commission,
   political contribution, gift, or any other consideration in order to secure
   work. Notwithstanding the foregoing, licensees are permitted to pay employment
   agencies fees for services rendered in securing salaried positions.
   
   
   
   (b)	Shall compete for employment based on professional qualification and
   competence to perform the work. The licensee shall not solicit or submit
   proposals for professional services containing a false, fraudulent,
   misleading, deceptive, or unfair statement or claim regarding the cost,
   quality, or extent of services to be rendered.
   
   
   
   (c)	Shall, with regard to fee bidding on public projects for the District of
   Columbia, comply with the provisions of 27 DCMR Chapter 26,
   &#8220;Construction And Architect-Engineer Contracts&#8221; and for federal
   projects, 40 U.S. Code 541 et seq. (the Brooks Act); and shall not knowingly
   cooperate in a violation of any provision of 27 DCMR Chapter 26 or of the
   Brooks Act.
   
   
   
   (d)	Shall not falsify or permit misrepresentation of academic or professional
   qualifications and shall only report educational qualifications when a degree
   or certificate was awarded, unless it is clearly stated that no degree or
   certificate was awarded. The licensee shall not misrepresent degree of
   responsibility in or for the subject matter of prior assignments. Brochures or
   other presentations incident to the solicitation of employment shall not
   misrepresent pertinent facts concerning employers, employees, associates,
   joint ventures, or past accomplishments with the intent and purpose of
   enhancing qualifications and work.

   1517.9. The Licensee shall perform services in an ethical and lawful manner
   and:
   
   
   
   (a)	Shall not knowingly associate with or permit the use of the
   licensee&#8217;s name or firm name in a business venture by any person or firm
   which the licensee knows, or has reason to believe, is engaging in business or
   professional practices of a fraudulent or dishonest nature or is not properly
   licensed.
   
   
   
   (b)	If the licensee has knowledge or reason to believe that another person or
   firm may be in violation of any of these provisions or of D.C. Law 12-261,
   shall present such information to the Board in writing and shall cooperate
   with the Board in furnishing such further information or assistance as may be
   required by the Board. The licensee shall timely respond to all inquiries and
   correspondence from the Board and shall timely claim correspondence from the
   U. S. Postal Service, or other delivery service, sent to the licensee from the
   Board.

   1517.10. A Professional Engineer or Professional Land Surveyor who has
   received a reprimand or civil penalty or whose professional license is
   revoked, suspended, denied, or surrendered because of disciplinary action by
   another jurisdiction shall be subject to discipline by the Board if the
   licensee&#8217;s action constitutes a violation of D.C. Law 12-261 or the
   rules adopted by the Board.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8783 (September 7, 2007).
