                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 17-1599)

1599.1. As used in this chapter, the following terms have the meaning
   ascribed:
   
   
   
   Board &#8211; The District of Columbia Board of Professional Engineering.
   
   
   
   Department &#8211; Unless otherwise defined, the Department of Consumer and
   Regulatory Affairs.
   
   
   
   Digital Signature &#8211; An electronic authentication process attached to or
   logically associated with an electronic document utilizing technology that
   meets the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards for
   security and privacy to provide the same degree of assurance and certainty as
   the traditional &#8220;paper and ink&#8221; method of signatures.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; The Director of the Department of Consumer and Regulatory
   Affairs. Engineering:
   
   
   
   (a)	Engineer &#8211; A person who is qualified to practice engineering by
   reason of special knowledge and use of the mathematical, physical, and
   engineering sciences and the principles and methods of engineering analysis
   and design, acquired by engineering education and engineering experience.
   
   
   
   (b)	Professional Engineer &#8211; A person who has been duly licensed as a
   professional engineer by the Board. The Board may designate a professional
   engineer, based on education, experience, and examination, as being licensed
   in a specific discipline or branch of engineering signifying the area in which
   the engineer has demonstrated competence.
   
   
   
   (c)	Engineer Intern &#8211; A person who has qualified for, taken, and passed
   an examination in the fundamental engineering subjects, as provided in these
   Rules.
   
   
   
   (d)	Practice of Engineering &#8211; Any service or creative work, the adequate
   performance of which requires engineering education, training, and experience
   in the application of special knowledge of the mathematical, physical, and
   engineering sciences to such services or creative work as consultation,
   investigation, expert technical testimony, evaluation, planning, design and
   design coordination of engineering works and systems, planning the use of
   land, air, and water, teaching of advanced engineering subjects, performing
   engineering surveys and studies, and the review of construction for the
   purpose of monitoring compliance with drawings and specifications; any of
   which embraces such services or work, either public or private, in connection
   with any utilities, structures, buildings, machines, equipment, processes,
   work systems, projects, communication systems, transportation systems, and
   industrial or consumer products, or equipment of control systems,
   communications, mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic, chemical,
   environmental, or thermal nature, insofar as they involve safeguarding life,
   health, or property, and including such other professional services as may be
   necessary to the planning, progress, and completion of any engineering
   services. Said practice includes the doing of such architectural work, as is
   incidental to the practice of engineering.
   
   
   
   (e)	Design coordination &#8211; The review and coordination of those technical
   submissions prepared by others, including as appropriate and without
   limitation, &#8220;consulting engineers, architects, landscape architects,
   surveyors or land surveyors, and other professionals working under the
   direction of the engineer.
   
   
   
   (f)	Engineering surveys &#8211; All survey activities required to support the
   sound conception, planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operation
   of engineered projects, but exclude the surveying of real property for the
   establishment of land boundaries, rights-of-way, easements, configuration or
   contours of the Earth&#8217;s surface, and the dependent or independent
   surveys or resurveys of the public land survey system.
   
   
   
   (g)	Consulting Engineer &#8211; A professional engineer whose principal
   occupation is the independent practice of engineering; whose livelihood is
   obtained by offering engineering services to the public; who is devoid of
   public, commercial, and product affiliation that might tend to imply a
   conflict of interest; and who is cognizant of his or her public and legal
   responsibilities, and is capable of discharging them.
   
   
   
   (h)	A graduate of an engineering curriculum &#8211; An individual who has been
   awarded a baccalaureate degree in engineering from an engineering program
   accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation
   Board for Engineering Technology (EAC/ABET), or a program that has been
   approved by the Board.
   
   
   
   Inactive Licensee &#8211; A licensee who is not engaged in engineering or land
   surveying practice that requires licensure in this jurisdiction may be granted
   inactive status. No inactive licensee may practice in this jurisdiction unless
   otherwise exempted in this chapter.
   
   
   
   Land Surveying:
   
   
   
   Professional Surveyor or Land Surveyor &#8211; A person who has been duly
   licensed as a professional surveyor or land surveyor by the Board, and engaged
   in the practice of land surveying.
   
   
   
   (a)	Land Surveyor Intern &#8211; A person who has qualified for, taken, and
   has passed an examination in the fundamental surveyor intern subjects, as
   provided by these Rules.
   
   
   
   (b)	Practice of Surveying or Land Surveying &#8211; Providing professional
   services such as consultation, investigation, testimony evaluation, expert
   technical testimony, planning, mapping, assembling, and interpreting reliable
   scientific measurements and information relative to the location, size, shape,
   or physical features of the earth, existing or proposed improvements on the
   earth, the space above the earth, or any part of the earth, and utilization
   and development of these facts and interpretation into an orderly survey map,
   plan, report, description, or project. The practice of surveying or land
   surveying includes, but is not limited to, any one or more of the following:
   
   
   
   1.	Determining the configuration or contour of the earth&#8217;s surface or
   the position of fixed objects thereon by measuring lines and angles and
   applying the principles of mathematics or photogrammetry.
   
   
   
   2.	Performing geodetic surveying which includes surveying for determination of
   the size and shape of the earth utilizing angular and linear measurements
   through spatially oriented spherical geometry.
   
   
   
   3.	Determining, by the use of principles of surveying, the position for any
   survey control (non-boundary) monument or reference point; or setting,
   resetting, or replacing any such monument or reference point.
   
   
   
   4.	Creating, preparing, or modifying electronic or computerized data,
   including land information systems, and geographic information systems,
   relative to the performance of the activities in the above described items (1)
   through (3).
   
   
   
   5.	Locating, relocating, establishing, reestablishing, laying out, or
   retracing any property line or boundary of any tract of land or any road,
   right of way, easement, alignment, or elevation of any of the fixed works
   embraced within the practice of engineering.
   
   
   
   6.	Making any survey for the subdivision of any tract of land.
   
   
   
   7.	Determining, by the use of principles of land surveying, the position for
   any survey monument or reference point; or setting, resetting, or replacing
   any such monument or reference point.
   
   
   
   8.	Creating, preparing, or modifying electronic or computerized data,
   including land information systems, and geographic information systems,
   relative to the performance of the activities in the above described items (5)
   through (7).
   
   
   
   (d)	A Graduate of a Land Surveying Curriculum &#8211; An individual who has
   been awarded a baccalaureate degree in land surveying from a program approved
   by the Board.
   
   
   
   (e)	A Graduate of a Related Curriculum &#8211; An individual who has been
   awarded a baccalaureate degree in areas in which land surveying courses may be
   taught along with mathematics and the physical sciences from a program
   approved by the Board.
   
   
   
   Responsible Charge &#8211; Direct control and personal supervision of
   engineering work or surveying or land surveying.
   
   
   
   Rules of Professional Responsibility for Professional Engineers and
   Professional Surveyors or Land Surveyors &#8211; These Rules.
   
   
   
   Seal &#8211; A symbol, image, or list of information that may be found in the
   form of a rubber stamp, embossed seal, computer-generated data, or other form.
   
   
   
   Signature &#8211; A handwritten message identification containing the name of
   the person who applied it.
   
   
   
   State &#8211; Any jurisdiction, territory, or possession of the United States
   and the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Written Examination &#8211; An examination administered in any format,
   including paper-and-pencil or on computer.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8783 (September 7, 2007).
