                                  DC REGULATIONS

REDEMPTION OF SPOILED OR UNUSED TAX STAMPS (ยง 9-1019)

1019.1. If any cigarette tax stamps issued under District tax laws are spoiled
   or rendered useless or unfit for the purpose intended, the amount paid for the
   stamps may be refunded or allowed as credit for the purchase of new stamps, in
   accordance with the provisions of this section.

   1019.2. If a licensee owns tax stamps for which that licensee has no further
   use, the amount paid for the stamps may be refunded, in accordance with the
   provisions of this section.

   1019.3. No refund shall be made under this section if the owner may be made
   whole by the Deputy Chief Financial Officer allowing a credit on the purchase
   of new stamps

   1019.4. No allowance or refund shall be made unless the owner of the stamps
   files a written claim, under oath, with the Deputy Chief Financial Officer (on
   the form prescribed by the Deputy Chief Financial Officer) within whichever of
   the following time limits is applicable:
   
   
   
   (a)	Within six (6) months after the stamps have been spoiled or rendered
   useless or unfit for the purpose intended; or
   
   
   
   (b)	In the case of stamps for which the owner has no further use, within six
   (6) months after the date of purchase of the stamps.

   1019.5. The owner of the stamps shall furnish all of the facts relative to the
   stamps spoiled, or rendered useless or unfit for the purpose intended, or for
   which the owner has no further use.

   1019.6. The written claim, when presented, shall be accompanied by the
   useless, spoiled, or unfit stamps, and the claimant shall furnish satisfactory
   proof conclusively establishing the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the stamps were purchased by the licensee making the claim for refund
   or allowance of credit; and
   
   
   
   (b)	That the licensee did not, nor did any person by direction of the licensee
   or with the consent or knowledge of the licensee, willfully or intentionally
   spoil or render such stamps useless or unfit for the purpose for which they
   were intended.

   1019.7. The written claim shall be accompanied by any additional information
   that the Deputy Chief Financial Officer may require. The claimant shall also
   provide any additional information that the Deputy Chief Financial Officer may
   require.

   1019.8. If the claimant fails to provide any of the information required by
   the Deputy Chief Financial Officer or this section; or if the Deputy Chief
   Financial Officer believes the claim to be false or fraudulent; or if the
   information so provided is, in the opinion of the Deputy Chief Financial
   Officer, insufficient to establish the claim; the claim shall be denied.

   1019.9. All retail licensees and vending machine licensees must file a claim
   for the redemption of unused cigarette stamps purchased prior to March 10,
   1982 on or before September 10, 1982.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 29 DCR 2804, 2813 (July 2, 1982).
