                                  DC REGULATIONS

CIGARETTES RETURNED TO THE MANUFACTURER (§ 9-1021)

1021.1. Notwithstanding the provisions of §§1019 and 1020, if any packages
   of cigarettes bearing stamps or meter impressions issued to any licensee under
   the Act are returned by any licensee to the manufacturer of the cigarettes
   because the packages of cigarettes are in an unsalable condition, the amount
   paid by the licensee for the stamps or meter impressions may be refunded to
   the licensee or allowed as a credit to the licensee on the purchase of new
   stamps or meter impressions, in accordance with the provisions of this
   section.

   1021.2. No allowance or refund shall be made unless the licensee files a
   written claim, under oath, with the Deputy Chief Financial Officer (on the
   form prescribed) within six (6) months after it has been determined that the
   packages of cigarettes are unsalable.

   1021.3. The written claim shall be under oath, and shall state all of the
   facts relating to the unsalability of the cigarettes and the return of the
   cigarettes to the manufacturer.

   1021.4. In each case, the licensee making the claim for refund shall furnish
   satisfactory proof conclusively establishing that the licensee applying for
   the refund has purchased sufficient stamps or meter impressions during the
   previous twelve (12) months to cover the amount of the claim for refund or
   credit for which application is being made.

   1021.5. The written claim shall be accompanied by any additional information
   that the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, in his or her discretion, may
   require; and the licensee and manufacturer shall submit any additional
   information that the Deputy Chief Financial Officer may require.

   1021.6. The licensee shall submit (on the prescribed form) with the claim, a
   statement under oath from the manufacturer showing the number and
   denominations of the District of Columbia cigarette tax stamps or meter
   impressions on packages of cigarettes received from the licensee as unsalable,
   and stating that the stamps or meter impressions were destroyed by the
   manufacturer.

   1021.7. If the licensee or manufacturer fail to provide any of the affidavits
   or other information required by this section or by the Deputy Chief Financial
   Officer; or if the Deputy Chief Financial Officer believes the claim to be
   false or fraudulent; or if the information so provided is, in the opinion of
   the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, insufficient to establish the claim; the
   claim shall be denied.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 29 DCR 2804, 2815 (July 2, 1982).
