                                  DC REGULATIONS

PERMITS FOR THE PURCHASE OF UNTAXED CIGARETTES (ยง 9-1015)

1015.1. An applicant for a permit to purchase untaxed cigarettes shall present
   to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer for retention by the Deputy Chief
   Financial Officer an official permit from the jurisdiction in which the
   applicant is licensed to engage in the sale of cigarettes, authorizing the
   applicant to purchase in the District untaxed cigarettes for transportation
   from the District to that jurisdiction.

   1015.2. An applicant for a permit to purchase untaxed cigarettes shall also
   file with the Deputy Chief Financial Officer an application (on the form
   prescribed) under oath for a permit stating the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and business address of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (b)	The jurisdiction in which the applicant is licensed to engage in the sale
   of cigarettes and to which the cigarettes will be transported; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The number and date of expiration of the license to sell cigarettes issued
   to the applicant by that jurisdiction.

   1015.3. If the cigarettes are to be transported by the wholesale licensee from
   whom they are purchased, the name of the licensee shall be stated in the
   application.

   1015.4. If the cigarettes are to be transported in a vehicle owned or operated
   by the applicant, the application shall state the name of the manufacturer,
   the body style and date of manufacture of the vehicle, the jurisdiction in
   which the vehicle is registered, and the registration number of the vehicle.

   1015.5. If the cigarettes are to be transported by common carrier, the
   application shall state the name and location of the carrier.

   1015.6. The applicant shall certify on the application that any untaxed
   cigarettes purchased by the applicant will be transported to and resold in the
   jurisdiction which issued the applicant a permit to purchase cigarettes in the
   District, and that the transportation will be made in the manner set forth in
   the application.

   1015.7. The original of the permit issued under this section shall accompany
   the cigarettes while they are in transit to the jurisdiction in which the
   purchaser is licensed to sell cigarettes, and transportation shall be
   restricted to the vehicle, common carrier, or wholesale licensee indicated on
   the application filed with the Deputy Chief Financial Officer.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 29 DCR 2804, 2811 (July 2, 1982).
