                                  DC REGULATIONS

MOBILE STORAGE CONTAINERS (§ 24-3312)

3312.1. No person shall place in the public right-of-way a mobile storage
   container without a public space permit issued by the Director of the District
   of Columbia Department of Transportation.

   3312.2. A mobile storage container provider shall submit to the Director of
   the District of Columbia Department of Transportation an application for an
   annual permit to use public space together with a one hundred dollars ($100)
   fee. With the application, the mobile storage container provider shall also
   provide proof of insurance as outlined in subsections 3312.3 and 3312.4 and a
   copy of its current, valid business license.

   3312.3. A permitted mobile storage container provider shall maintain
   throughout the term of the permit an insurance policy or policies covering all
   operations of the permittee’s mobile storage container business. Failure to
   maintain the required insurance shall be a violation of the terms of the
   permit.

   3312.4. Each permitted mobile storage container provider shall obtain a public
   liability insurance policy made out in the name of, and for the sole benefit
   of the District of Columbia, a municipal corporation, and its officers and
   employees, covering all use of public space. The insurance policy shall
   contain coverage in the following amounts:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   $500,000.00
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Each individual
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   $1,000,000.00
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Each accident
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   $500,000.00
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Property damage

   3312.5. A mobile storage container provider who has obtained a permit shall do
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Post on the outside of the mobile storage container a copy of the public
   space permit issued to the mobile storage container provider or clearly
   display the name of the mobile storage container provider on the outside of
   the mobile storage container;
   
   
   
   (b)	Place the mobile storage container in the parking lane of the roadway
   parallel with the edge of the roadway in front of the property owned or leased
   by the person renting the mobile storage container, or the nearest adjacent
   location;
   
   
   
   (c)	Mark the exterior, traffic facing side of the mobile storage container
   with reflective material;
   
   
   
   (d)	Keep the mobile storage container completely covered and sealed during
   transport; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Keep the exterior of the mobile storage container clean and free of
   graffiti.

   3312.6. No mobile storage container provider shall place a mobile storage
   container in the following manner:
   
   
   
   (a)	Beyond, atop, or partially resting upon the curb of the roadway;
   
   
   
   (b)	In the tree box area;
   
   
   
   (c)	On the sidewalk or across the sidewalk;
   
   
   
   (d)	In violation of rush hour, street sweeping, building entrance or any other
   parking restrictions, except the residential permit parking restrictions; and
   
   
   
   (e)	At a parking meter, unless the person renting the mobile storage container
   has provided proof of meter fee payment tendered to the Director of the
   Department of Transportation pursuant to subsection 3312.13 and a copy of the
   public space permit for the address specific location issued by the Director
   of the District of Columbia Department of Transportation pursuant to
   subsection 3312.9.

   3312.7. The Director of the District of Columbia Department of Transportation
   may revoke an annual public space permit issued to a mobile storage container
   provider for the following reasons:
   
   
   
   (a)	The mobile storage container provider violates a provision of subsections
   3312.2 through 3312.6 or the public space permit issued to the provider;
   
   
   
   (b)	The mobile storage container provider fails to pay the applicable fees; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Public safety and welfare.

   3312.8. No person shall rent for the placement or otherwise cause to be placed
   on the public right-of-way a mobile storage container without a public space
   permit that is address specific to the location and issued by the Director of
   the District of Columbia Department of Transportation.

   3312.9. At least 72 hours prior to the placement of mobile storage containers
   on the public right-of-way, the person renting such containers shall submit to
   the Director of the District of Columbia Department of Transportation an
   application for each address specific location to be occupied by the mobile
   storage containers.

   3312.10. The person who rents the mobile storage container shall pay a public
   space permit fee of fifty dollars ($50) to rent space at a location in front
   of or adjacent to the address specific location. The total public space area
   occupied by mobile storage containers for any location shall not exceed the
   following dimensions, unless the fee provided in subsection 3312.12 is paid:
   
   
   
   (a)	Width of eight feet;
   
   
   
   (b)	Length of twelve feet; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Height of eight feet

   3312.11. For each additional six (6) feet of length of public right-of-way or
   portion thereof occupied by the mobile storage containers an additional permit
   fee of twenty-five dollars ($25) shall be paid.

   3312.12. An additional fee shall be charged to compensate the District of
   Columbia Department of Transportation for the revenue lost due to the
   occupancy of the public right-of-way by mobile storage containers placed at a
   parking meter.

   3312.13. No person shall leave any mobile storage container in the public
   right-of-way for longer than five (5) days.

   3312.14. A mobile storage container renter who has obtained a permit to occupy
   public space shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Post Emergency No Parking signs at the address specific location
   designated for the mobile storage containers at least 72 hours prior to the
   placement of the mobile storage containers at the location; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Post on the outside of the mobile storage container a copy of the public
   space permit for the address specific location.

   3312.15. The Director of the District of Columbia Department of Transportation
   may revoke a public space permit issued for an address specific location for
   the following reasons:
   
   
   
   (a)	The permittee violates a provision of subsections 3312.10 through 3312.15
   or the public space permit for the address specific location;
   
   
   
   (b)	The permittee fails to pay the applicable fees; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Public safety and welfare.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12279 (December 5, 2008).
