                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS (ยง 24-3310)

3310.1. In addition to the Public Right-of-Way Occupancy Permit, a Permittee
   shall obtain all other required permits and licenses, and other forms of
   approval, including, where applicable, approval of the Downtown Streetscape
   Committee in accordance with Chapter 11 of this Title, prior to occupying the
   public space, public right-of-way, or public structure that is the subject of
   the Public Right-of-Way Occupancy Permit.

   3310.2. The duration of Public Rights-of-Way Occupancy Permits is as follows,
   with provisions for renewal thereafter:
   
   
   
   (a)	Permits issued pursuant to section 3302 shall be valid for twenty (20)
   years;
   
   
   
   (b)	Permits issued pursuant to sections 3303 and 3304 shall be valid for not
   more than one (1) year; and
   
   
   
   (c)	All other Permits shall be valid for terms not to exceed ten (10) years.

   3310.3. Any permit shall be subject to suspension or revocation for failure of
   the Public Right-of-Way Occupancy Permittee to comply with these regulations,
   other applicable federal and District laws and regulations, or the terms and
   conditions of the Permit.

   3310.4. The Director shall provide Public Right-of-Way Occupancy Permittee
   with a notice of intent to suspend or revoke. The Permittee shall have a
   30-day period to cure the deficiency or offer a written defense, which may
   include a request for a hearing. The Director shall consider the defense and
   decide, in his or her discretion, whether to grant a hearing or issue a
   written decision. The procedures for any hearing permitted by the Director
   shall be specified in the notice of hearing. In the event that any permit is
   revoked, the Public Right-of-Way Occupancy Permittee shall, at the
   Department&#8217;s request, remove the installation that was the subject of
   the revoked permit from the public space, public right-of-way, or public
   structure. The cost of removal shall be at the Public Right-of-Way Occupancy
   Permittee&#8217;s sole expense.

   3310.5. The Public Right-of-Way Occupancy Permittee shall not transfer or
   assign its interest in any Permit issued in accordance herewith without the
   prior written authorization of the Department of Public Works. For purposes of
   this section, a merger or consolidation of the Permittee with another company,
   a pledge of assets as collateral on a loan, an assignment to an affiliate,
   parent, or subsidiary of the Permittee, or a transfer of stock shall not be
   deemed a transfer or assignment. If all or part of Permittee&#8217;s
   facilities in public space, the public right-of-way, or public structures are
   sold, if Permittee makes a general assignment of its entire assets, or if
   title to any of Permittee&#8217;s facilities in public space, the public
   right-of- way, or public structures is in any manner conveyed to another
   Person, Permittee shall give written notice to the Director of such
   occurrence, and the new owner shall make application with the Director for
   transfer of the Permit. From and after receipt of such written notice, the new
   owner of the facilities will be responsible for the payment of the rental fees
   hereunder. If Permittee fails to notify the Director as required in this
   paragraph, Permittee shall remain liable for all rental fee payments due
   hereunder.

   3310.6. No portion of the public space, public right-of-way, or public
   structure occupied by the Permittee, except that occupied by stand-alone
   conduits or pipes, or aerial lines, may be leased or subleased for a fee
   without express written permission from the Department permitting such lease
   or sublease, subject to such terms and conditions as the Department may
   impose. Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as to impede the
   interconnection requirements prescribed by federal and District law.

   3310.7. A Public Right-of-Way Occupancy Permittee shall not authorize any
   other Person to make use of the Permittee&#8217;s facilities in the public
   space or right-of-way without demonstration that the Person is authorized by
   the Department to make the contemplated use and that the Person holds the
   appropriate permits from the Department.

   3310.8. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the liability of
   the Public Right-of-Way Occupancy Permittee to pay all applicable Federal and
   District taxes.

   3310.9. All payments shall be subject to audit by the District and assessment
   or refund if the payment is found to be in error. In the event that such audit
   results in the assessment of an additional payment to the District, such
   additional payment may be subject to interest at the rate of one percent (1%)
   per month retroactive to the date such payment originally should have been
   paid, which shall be due and payable immediately in addition to the cost of
   the audit as provided in Section 3303.4 of this Chapter. Any overpayment to
   the District shall be credited against the Public Right-of-Way Occupancy
   Permittee&#8217;s next rental payment.

   3310.10. For permits issued under Section 3300 of this Chapter, prior to the
   deployment of the Permittee&#8217;s wireless communications system, the
   Permittee shall file with the Department a network plan that clearly
   identifies the network&#8217;s component devices and their specifications and
   location.

   3310.11. The Permittee shall, at its own cost and expense, protect, support,
   temporarily disconnect, relocate or remove its facilities from any public
   streetlight pole or the surface of the public right-of-way when required to do
   so by the Department and shall, at its own cost and expense, remove its
   facilities upon expiration of the Permit.

   3310.12. Nothing in this Chapter or any Permit issued in accordance herewith
   for aerial facilities shall be construed as authorizing the Public
   Right-of-Way Occupancy Permittee to erect and maintain new streetlight poles
   or support structures.

   3310.13. The Public Right-of-Way Occupancy Permittee shall properly maintain
   the occupied public space, public right-of-way, public structure, and all
   facilities installed as part of the Permittee&#8217;s system so that the
   Permittee&#8217;s installation does not interfere with or disrupt the
   operation of any equipment or facility belonging to the District or other
   permitted users, or pose a danger to the public. The Permittee shall keep all
   surface installations, including personalized pavers, free of ice, snow,
   leaves, litter, refuse and other deposits.

   3310.14. The Public Right-of-Way Occupancy Permittee shall demonstrate
   financial responsibility or provide evidence of indemnification insurance and
   performance bonds as required by the Department. The amounts of the insurance
   and bonds will be based upon:
   
   
   
   (a)	The extent of the network design filed with the Department as specified in
   Section 3304.10, as to permits issued pursuant to Section 3300;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number, size, composition, and location of the personalized pavers
   that will occupy portions of the public sidewalk, as to permits issued under
   Section 3301 of this Chapter; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The extent to which the Public Right-of-Way Occupancy Permittee&#8217;s
   structure housing transmission facilities occupies the public right-of-way as
   shown in the plans filed with the Department as specified in Section 3303.2,
   as to permits issued pursuant to Section 3302 of this Chapter.

   3310.15. The Public Right-of-Way Occupancy Permittee, as a condition of its
   Permit, agrees to hold harmless the District and the United States, and
   officers and employees of each of these governments, for any loss or damage to
   persons or property, arising out of or in any way related to Public
   Right-of-Way Occupancy Permittee&#8217;s use of the public space, public
   rights-of-way, or public structure, or the discontinuance of any use.

   3310.16. In the event that a Right-of-Way Occupancy Permit expires or is
   suspended or revoked, the Director may require, at the expense of the
   Permittee, the immediate removal of any apparatus, structure, facility,
   installation, or device affixed, erected, or installed in public space, on a
   public right-of-way, or on a public structure, and the restoration of the
   public space, public right-of-way, or public structure to its condition prior
   to the issuance of the permit. If the Permittee does not comply with the
   requirements of this subsection, the Director may remove any of the
   Permittee&#8217;s property and the cost of such removal shall be borne by the
   Permittee, including, but not limited to, the manner specified in ยง 24-1313.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 6581 (December 13, 1996); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 2353 (March 31, 2000); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 5375 (June 8, 2001); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 8562 (September 13, 2002); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 7857 (September 29, 2006).
