                                  DC REGULATIONS

BOOKS AND RECORDS (ยง 16-1001)

1001.1. Each junk dealer, Class A secondhand dealer, and Class C secondhand
   dealer shall keep at the dealer&#8217;s place of business a book or books, in
   which the dealer shall record an accurate account of each transaction in the
   course of the business (except as to the purchase of rags, bones, old iron,
   and paper by junk dealers).

   1001.2. The account of the transaction shall be legibly written in English at
   the time of the transaction and numbered consecutively.

   1001.3. All records made pursuant to this section shall be maintained by the
   dealer at the dealer&#8217;s place of business for a period of not less than
   one (1) year after the date the property is sold or disposed of in any manner.

   1001.4. The account of each transaction shall set forth the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	An accurate and complete description of the goods, article, or thing
   purchased or received on account of money paid for it, giving all numbers,
   marks, monograms, trade marks, and manufacturer&#8217;s names and any other
   marks of identification appearing on the item at the time of receiving the
   item;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name, residence, race, and sex of the person selling or delivering the
   item;
   
   
   
   (c)	The terms and conditions of the purchase, or receipt of the item;
   
   
   
   (d)	The place and date of the transaction;
   
   
   
   (e)	All other information contained in at least one (1) type of identification
   provided by the seller or person delivering the item; and
   
   
   
   (f)	All other facts and circumstances respecting the purchase or receipt.

   1001.5. A dealer in secondhand personal property shall securely fasten on any
   article purchased or received, for which records must be kept pursuant to this
   section, a tag to be prescribed by the Mayor.

   1001.6. The dealer shall legibly write in English on the tag, the date of
   purchase or receipt of the article and a number corresponding with the
   property on the dealer&#8217;s book.

   1001.7. The tag shall remain on the property until such time as the property
   is sold or disposed of by the dealer.
