                                  DC REGULATIONS

CLASSES OF DEALERS (§ 16-1000)

1000.1. Dealers in secondhand personal property in the District of Columbia
   shall be designated in classes, as set forth in this section.

   1000.2. A Class A secondhand dealer shall be a person, firm or corporation,
   other than a Class B or a Class C secondhand dealer, engaged in the business
   of buying, selling, trading, exchanging or dealing in secondhand personal
   property of any description (other than motor vehicles), including the return
   or unused portion of any railroad ticket, order or token.

   1000.3. A Class B secondhand dealer shall be a person, firm or corporation
   primarily engaged in the sale of new merchandise, and incidentally engaged in
   selling, trading, exchanging or dealing in secondhand personal property of any
   description (other than motor vehicles) as the result of having received that
   secondhand personal property in trade, or by repossession or as part payment
   for new merchandise.

   1000.4. No Class B secondhand dealer shall engage in the business of dealing
   in used personal property except as an incident to the sale of other
   merchandise.

   1000.5. A Class C secondhand dealer shall be a charitable organization, as
   defined in § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, which purchases
   or receives secondhand personal property (other than motor vehicles) for the
   purpose of resale; or a person, firm, or corporation which purchases or
   receives secondhand personal property of any description (other than motor
   vehicles) on consignment for the purpose of resale.

   1000.6. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as requiring a secondhand
   dealer license for a person, firm, or corporation that sells the following
   kinds of secondhand personal property:
   
   (a)	Books, magazines, vinyl records, cassette tapes, compact discs, VHS
   videos, DVDs, Blu-ray discs, or other similar recorded media;
   
   	(b)	Furniture, home furnishings, architectural salvage, or pianos;
   
   	(c)	Rugs or tapestries;
   
   	(d) 	Used clothing;
   
   (e)	Household property, when offered for sale from the owner’s residence on
   a temporary basis in connection with a garage sale or yard sale;
   
   (f)	Paintings, sculptures, drawings, etchings, engravings, photographs,
   lithographs, or prints;
   
   (g)	Jewelry that:
   
   (1)	Does not contain any precious metals and/or precious stones; or
   
   (2)	Contains precious metals and/or precious stones and has been purchased
   from an estate sale or certified auction; provided, that written verification
   shall be provided to any District government official, upon request, that any
   such jewelry was purchased from an estate sale or certified auction. For
   purposes of this subsection:
   
   (A)	“Written verification” shall mean a written record that includes a
   description of the jewelry purchased, any catalog numbers or identifying
   information, the date it was purchased, the purchase price, the identification
   of the seller (including the name, address, telephone number, and other
   relevant contact information), and an estimate of its fair market value;
   
   (B)	“Precious metals” shall include gold, silver, platinum, or palladium;
   and
   
   (C)	“Precious stones” shall include diamonds, rubies, sapphires, emeralds,
   or pearls;
   
   (h)	Merchandise that was accepted or received as a return, exchange, or for
   credit or refund if such merchandise was originally purchased as new
   merchandise from the person accepting or receiving it; or
   
   (i)	The first sale, at retail, of merchandise that has been rebuilt by the
   manufacturer originally manufacturing it, or the licensed agents thereof, and
   sold as factory rebuilt or refurbished merchandise.
   
   
   
   AUTHORITY: Unless otherwise noted, the authority for this chapter is a Joint
   Resolution to regulate licenses to proprietors of theatres in the city of
   Washington, District of Columbia, and for other purposes, approved February
   26, 1892.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Section 1(a) of Article 1 of the Police Regulations; as enacted by
   Commissioners’ Order 332803 promulgated October 17, 1933; as further amended
   by § 2(a) of the Secondhand Dealers Regulations and Rental Housing Act of
   1980 Clarification Act of 1981, D.C. Law 4-15, 28 DCR 2255, 2256 (May 22,
   1981); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 11001, 11002
   (September 21, 2012).
