                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONCILIATION OF DISPUTES AND THE CONCILIATION SERVICE (§ 14-3913)

3913.1. Either a housing provider or a tenant may initiate a request for
   conciliation of a dispute arising under the Act or this subtitle.

   3913.2. A request for conciliation of a dispute shall be filed on a form
   provided by the Rent Administrator.

   3913.3. A request for conciliation of a dispute shall be filed with the RACD
   Conciliation Service established by § 503 of the Act. The Conciliation
   Service shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Utilize a knowledge of the Act, this subtitle, and, if applicable, an
   Apartment Improvement Program building improvement plan, and other specific
   information about the circumstances of the dispute to assist the parties in
   arriving at a mutually acceptable explanation of the dispute and to assist the
   parties in developing a mutually acceptable settlement or resolution of the
   dispute;
   
   
   
   (b)	Advise both the housing provider and the tenant of their rights and
   obligations under the Act, this subtitle, and other applicable D.C. laws;
   
   
   
   (c)	Advise both the housing provider and the tenant of circumstances
   surrounding the dispute which constitute violations of the Act, this subtitle,
   and other D.C. laws; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Refer disputes relating to a building improvement plan that are not
   resolved by conciliation to a partnership committee of the Apartment
   Improvement Program.

   3913.4. Neither party to a dispute brought before the Conciliation Service
   shall be compelled to attend a session or participate in any proceeding of the
   Conciliation Service.

   3913.5. The results of an attempt to conciliate a dispute shall not be binding
   upon either party, except where an agreement is developed voluntarily as a
   result of the conciliation.

   3913.6. Voluntary agreements reached during conciliation shall not prevent the
   Rent Administrator from enforcing the provisions of the Act or this subtitle.

   3913.7. The proceedings of the Conciliation Service shall be informal,
   voluntary, and non-adversarial. No formal evidence shall be offered or
   accepted.

   3913.8. Admissions of responsibility by either party or other stipulations
   required as an essential condition for making an agreement shall not be
   admissible in any adjudicatory proceedings under the Act, this subtitle, or
   any other administrative or judicial proceedings under provisions of District
   of Columbia law.

   3913.9. Each tenant petition shall be reviewed by the Conciliation Service to
   determine if it involves issues that could be resolved through conciliation.

   3913.10. If issues that may be resolved through conciliation are presented in
   a tenant petition, the Conciliation Service shall discuss with the tenant the
   conciliation of the matters raised in the tenant petition. If the tenant
   agrees, the Conciliation Service shall contact the housing provider.

   3913.11. Immediately prior to the hearing in any tenant petition, the Rent
   Administrator or the Rent Administrator’s designee shall offer to assist the
   parties in resolving the dispute through conciliation. If conciliation fails,
   upon mutual consent of the parties, the housing provider and the tenant may
   submit any dispute for arbitration.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336, 1358-59 (March
   7, 1986).
