                                  DC REGULATIONS

POLL WATCHERS AND ELECTION OBSERVERS (§ 3-706)

706.1. Each qualified candidate, and each proponent or opponent of a proposed
   ballot measure, who has timely filed a verified statement of contributions
   with the Office of Campaign Finance may petition the Board for credentials
   authorizing poll watchers at any:
   
   
   
   (a)  	Early voting centers;
   
   
   
   	(b)  	Polling places; and/or
   
   
   
   		(c) 	 Ballot counting places.
   
   
   
   706.2  	For purposes of this chapter, a “verified statement of
   contributions” refers to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)  	The statement of organization, pursuant to D.C. Official Code §
   1-1102.04 (2006 Repl.); and
   
   
   
   (b)  	The report(s) of receipts and expenditures, pursuant to D.C. Official
   Code § 1-1102.06 (2006 Repl.).

   706.3. Persons who wish to witness the administration of elections, including
   nonpartisan or bipartisan, domestic or international organizations, who are
   not affiliated with a candidate or ballot measure may petition the Board for
   credentials authorizing election observers at any:
   
   
   
   (a)  	Early voting centers;
   
   (b)  	Polling places; and/or
   
   (c)  	Ballot counting places.

   706.4. Each petition shall be filed with the Board, not less than two (2)
   weeks before each election and shall be on a form furnished by the Board. 
   Less than two (2) weeks before each election, the Board reserves the right to
   accept additional petitions based upon available space.

   706.5. At the time of filing, the poll watcher petition form shall contain the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address, telephone number, and signature of the candidate,
   organization representative, or ballot measure proponent or opponent with the
   office for which he or she is a candidate, and a short title, if any, of the
   measure or proposed Charter amendment which he or she supports or opposes;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name, address, and telephone number of the poll watcher supervisor, if
   a person is designated by the candidate, organization, proponent, or opponent;
   
   
   
   (c)	The locations where access credentials are sought;
   
   
   
   (d)	The names, addresses and telephone numbers of at least two (2) and not
   more than three (3) persons who are authorized to collect the poll watcher
   badges from the Board on behalf of the candidate, organization representative,
   or ballot measure proponent or opponent for distribution to the authorized
   poll watchers; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A certificate from the applicant that each proposed poll watcher selected
   is a qualified elector, and that each poll watcher selected shall conform to
   the regulations of the Board with respect to poll watchers and the conduct of
   the election.

   706.6. At the time of filing, the election observer petition form shall
   contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address, and telephone number of the organization or individual
   seeking credentials;
   
   (b)	The name, address, and telephone number of the election observer
   supervisor, if a person is designated by an organization;
   
   (c)  	The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all observers who will be
   receiving badges;
   
   
   
   (d)  	The locations where access credentials are sought;
   
   (e)	The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of at least one (1) and not
   more than three (3) persons who are authorized to collect the election
   observer badges from the Board on behalf of the organization or individual
   seeking credentials for distribution to the authorized election observers; and
   
   (f)  	A certificate from the applicant that each election observer selected
   shall conform to the regulations of the Board with respect to election
   observers and the conduct of the election.

   706.7. The Board may limit the number of poll watchers or election observers
   to ensure that the conduct of the election will not be obstructed or
   disrupted.

   706.8. Notwithstanding § 706.7:
   
   
   
   (a)	Each qualified candidate shall be entitled to one (1) poll watcher in each
   of the precincts where his or her name appears on the ballot.
   
   
   
   (b)	Each proponent or opponent of a ballot measure who has timely filed a
   verified statement of contributions with the Office of Campaign Finance shall
   be entitled to one (1) poll watcher in each precinct where the ballot measure
   appears on the ballot.

   706.9. The Board shall make a ruling on poll watcher and election observer
   petitions not less than ten (10) days prior to an election.

   706.10. In making a determination of the number of watchers or observers
   allowed, the Board shall consider the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The number of candidates or requesting organizations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Whether the candidates are running as a slate;
   
   
   
   (c)	The number of proponents and opponents of measures and proposed Charter
   amendments;
   
   
   
   (d)	The physical limitations of the polling places and counting place; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Any other relevant factors.

   706.11. Within twenty-four (24) hours of a denial, the Board shall issue a
   public notice with respect to any denial of a petition for credentials.

   706.12. If a place cannot accommodate all those seeking credentials, the Board
   may grant preference to poll watchers over election observers, and
   organizations over individuals.

   706.13. The Board shall issue a badge for each authorized poll watcher or
   election observer, with space for the watcher’s or observer’s name and the
   name of the candidate or party represented by the watcher, or any organization
   being represented by the observer. Badges shall also be issued for each
   authorized watcher representing the proponents or opponents of measures or
   proposed Charter amendments.

   706.14. Badges shall be numbered consecutively, and consecutive numbers issued
   to each candidate, organization, proponent, or opponent.

   706.15. All badges shall be worn by the authorized poll watcher or election
   observer in plain view at all times when on duty at the polling place or
   counting place.

   706.16. An authorized alternate poll watcher or election observer may, in the
   discretion of the watcher or observer supervisor, be substituted for a watcher
   or observer at any time; provided, that notice is first given to the
   designated representative of the Board at the polling place or counting place.

   706.17. A poll watcher shall be allowed to perform the following acts:
   
   
   
   (a)	Observe the count;
   
   
   
   (b)	Unofficially ascertain the identity of persons who have voted;
   
   
   
   (c)	Report alleged discrepancies to the Precinct Captain; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Challenge voters in accordance with the procedures specified in this
   chapter.

   706.18. An election observer shall be allowed to perform the following acts:
   
   
   
   (a)  	Observe the count;
   
   
   
   (b)  	Unofficially ascertain the identity of persons who have voted; and
   
   (c)  	Report alleged discrepancies to the Precinct Captain.

   706.19. No poll watcher or election observer shall, at any time, do any of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Touch any official record, ballot, voting equipment, or counting form;
   
   
   
   (b)	Interfere with the progress of the voting or counting;
   
   
   
   (c)  	Assist a voter with the act of voting;
   
   (d)	Talk to any voter while the voter is in the process of voting, or to any
   counter while the count is underway; provided, that a watcher or observer may
   request that a ballot be referred for ruling on its validity to a
   representative of the Board;
   
   
   
   (e)	In any way obstruct the election process; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Use any video or still cameras inside the polling place while the polls
   are open for voting, or use any video or still camera inside the counting
   center if such use is disruptive or interferes with the administration of the
   counting process.

   706.20. Any poll watcher or election observer who, in the judgment of the
   Board or its designated representative, has failed to comply with any of the
   rules contained in this section may be requested to leave the polling place or
   the counting center.

   706.21. If a poll watcher or election observer is requested to leave, that
   watcher’s or observer’s authorization to use credentials shall be
   cancelled, and he or she shall leave the polling place or counting place
   forthwith.

   706.22. An authorized alternate poll watcher or election observer may be
   substituted for a watcher or observer who has been removed.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 39 D.C. Reg. 2467, 2482 (April 10,
   1992); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 D.C. Reg. 7406 (July 30,
   2004); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 D.C. Reg. 5753, 5755
   (July 17, 2009); and as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 D.C. Reg.
   4245, 4249 (May 14, 2010); as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed
   Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 57 DCR 7081 (August 6, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 11123, 11124
   (November 26, 2010).
