                                  DC REGULATIONS

VOTE CASTING PROCEDURES[COLON] SPECIAL BALLOT (§ 3-714)

714	VOTE CASTING PROCEDURES: SPECIAL BALLOT

   714.1. Uses for a Special Ballot (or Provisional Ballot) include instances
   where the voter:
   
   
   
   (a)	Wishes to vote in a precinct other than that serving the voter’s
   address;
   
   (b)	Is listed as an absentee voter on the alphabetical or supplemental lists
   of registered voters (poll book) in the precinct but claims that he or she has
   not voted by absentee ballot;
   
   
   
   (c)	Is listed on the poll book in the precinct but claims, in a primary
   election, that the party affiliation indicated on the listing is in error;
   
   
   
   (d)	Is listed on the poll book in the precinct but claims, in a general
   election, that the ANC Single-Member District indicated on the listing is in
   error;
   
   
   
   (e)	Alleges that his or her name has been erroneously omitted from the poll
   book, or alleges that his or her name or address is incorrectly printed on the
   poll book;
   
   
   
   (f)	Has moved from the address as listed on the Board’s registration records
   and presents himself or herself to vote at the precinct serving his or her
   current residence address;
   
   
   
   (g)	Has been challenged pursuant to this chapter, and that challenge is
   accepted;
   
   
   
   (h)	Votes in an election for federal office as a result of a federal or
   District of Columbia court order, or any other order, extending the statutory
   poll-closing time;
   
   
   
   (i) 	Has not previously voted in a federal election in the District and who
   registers to vote by mail and fails to present, either at the time of
   registration, at the polling place, or when voting by mail, either a copy of a
   current and valid photo identification, a copy of a current utility bill, bank
   statement, government check, paycheck, or other document that shows his or her
   name and address;
   
   
   
   (j)	Resides temporarily at a District of Columbia licensed nursing home or
   assisted living facility, or at a qualified retirement home and casts a ballot
   at such facility; or
   
   
   
   (k)  	Has registered to vote during the in-person absentee voting period, at
   an early voting center designated by the Board, or at a polling place on
   Election Day.

   714.2. An individual whose eligibility to vote in the election cannot be
   determined during the in-person absentee voting period, at an early voting
   center, or at a polling place on Election Day because of one (1) or more of
   the reasons cited in § 714.1 shall vote by Special Ballot.

   714.3. Any voter who wishes to vote in a precinct other than that serving the
   voter’s address (voting precinct) because of age, disability, or limitation
   of health may contact the Board in writing prior to Election Day to request
   that a complete ballot for his or her precinct of residence be brought to the
   voting precinct on Election Day.

   714.4. A voter casting a Special Ballot shall complete, with the assistance of
   a designated polling place official, a Special Ballot Envelope which shall
   provide space for the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	 The name and current residence of the voter;
   
   
   
   (b)	The reason for voting the Special Ballot;
   
   
   
   (c)  	The voter’s drivers license number or last four (4) digits of the
   voter’s social security number;
   
   
   
   (d)  	The voter’s date of birth;
   
   
   
   (e)  	The precinct in which the voter is casting the ballot; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Any other information as may be necessary to determine if the person is
   qualified to vote.

   714.5. The outside of the Special Ballot Envelope shall contain a statement
   warning the voter of the criminal penalties for making a false representation
   as to his or her qualifications for voting and an affirmation signed by the
   voter attesting to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, he or she is a
   registered voter in the District of Columbia, or if he or she is not
   registered to vote, that he or she meets the qualifications for voter
   registration;
   
   
   
   (b)	That he or she resides at the residence provided; and
   
   
   
   (c)	That the information contained on the outside of the Special Ballot
   Envelope is truthful and complete.

   714.6. Before being permitted to vote by Special Ballot, the voter shall sign
   the affirmation printed on the Special Ballot Envelope.

   714.7. The designated polling place official shall witness the voter signing
   the affirmation printed on the Special Ballot Envelope.

   714.8. Designated polling officials shall issue the following to each voter
   casting a special ballot:
   
   
   
   (a)	A voter card with the word “SPECIAL” placed thereupon;
   
   (b)	Ballot(s);
   
   
   
   (c)	An inner envelope to ensure the secrecy of the ballot; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Written notification of appeal rights if the voter’s special ballot is
   rejected in whole or in part.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 39 D.C. Reg. 2467, 2490 (April 10,
   1992); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 D.C. Reg. 7414 (July 30,
   2004); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 D.C. Reg. 4245, 4262
   (May 14, 2010); as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking
   published at 57 DCR 57 DCR 7081 (August 6, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 11123, 11130 (November 26,
   2010); as amended by Notice of Emergency and Federal Rulemaking published at
   58 DCR 10752 (December 16, 2012)[EXPIRED];as amended by Notice of Final
   Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 941, 960
   
    (February 10, 2012).
