                                  DC REGULATIONS

CLOSING THE POLLS (§ 3-723)

723.1. Immediately after the last voter has voted, the Precinct Captain or his
   or her designee(s) shall in the presence and view of designated poll watchers:
   
   
   
   (a)	Remove all voted ballots from the OSVE, and secure them in a transfer case
   for delivery to the Counting Center;
   
   
   
   (b)	Remove any ballots that have been deposited either in the emergency ballot
   entry slot in the OSVE or in an auxiliary ballot box, enter these ballots into
   the automatic tabulating system, secure these ballots in the transfer case
   referred to in § 723.1(a) and seal the transfer case with a signed
   certificate;
   
   
   
   (c)	Request and confirm the close of polls and produce the total vote count
   tape for all contests on the ballot in that precinct;
   
   
   
   (d)	Enter the reading from the OSVE’s public counter onto the total vote
   count tape;
   
   
   
   (e)	Remove and sign the total vote count tape, and seal it for delivery to the
   counting center; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Place the OSVE’s memory card, or other electronic media, and the DRE’s
   tabulation cartridge into a transfer case which shall be sealed with a signed
   certificate for delivery to the Counting Center.

   723.2. The Precinct Captain shall then prepare a complete accounting of
   ballots issued to that polling place, in accordance with and on forms provided
   by the Board.

   723.3. The accounting of ballots shall include the following numbers of
   ballots:
   
   
   
   (a)	Voted;
   
   
   
   (b)	Spoiled;
   
   
   
   (c)	Not used; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Received.

   723.4. Upon completion of voting, a summary count of votes (for each contest)
   at each precinct shall be posted in a conspicuous place that can be seen from
   the outside of the polling place.

   723.5. At each precinct, Precinct Captains shall prepare a report which
   indicates the numbers of:
   
   
   
   (a)  	Votes cast;
   
   (b)  	Persons who signed in;
   
   (c)  	Voter-verifiable records that arrived at the polling place before the
   polls opened;
   
   (d)  	Voter-verifiable records that were used; and
   
   (e)  	Unused voter-verifiable records.

   723.6. The Precinct Captain shall keep a record of the names and addresses of
   individuals who:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Attempted to register on election day but could not provide proof of
   residence; and
   
   (b) 	Successfully registered on election day and voted.

   723.7. Precinct Captain reports and records shall be made available for public
   inspection at a reasonable date following an election.

   723.8. In accordance with directives of the Board, the transfer cases
   containing the voted ballots, OSVE memory card or other electronic media, and
   DRE tabulation cartridges shall be returned to the Counting Center promptly
   following the closing of the polls.

   723.9. Unvoted ballots and other election materials and paraphernalia shall be
   returned to the custody of the Board as directed.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 57
   DCR 7081 (August 6, 	2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 57 DCR 11123, 11145 	(November 26, 2010).
