                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECERTIFICATION (§ 14-9818)

9818.1. AYBL Families will be responsible for adhering to all recertification
   requirements in accordance with 14 DCMR § 6118.1(a)—(f).

   9818.2. AYBL Families who wish to remove a household member from the household
   composition shall have the burden of proof that such person has permanently
   vacated the Leased Premises and must submit documents satisfactory to DCHA, in
   accordance 14 DCMR § 6119.1, that the household member is residing elsewhere.
   
   
   
   9818.3  	If the removal of the household member results in a change in
   required bedroom size for the AYBL Family and there are no available AYBL
   Rewards Property units available that meet the AYBL Family’s new household
   composition, the family can no longer participate in AYBL.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A required transfer will be initiated when an available non-Rewards Property
   unit meeting the family’s household composition needs is available.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If a non-Rewards Property unit is not immediately available for the family to
   occupy, the family will remain at the Rewards Property, but will be converted
   to a standard Public Housing resident by executing a new lease addendum with a
   Standard Rent calculation and charged.  The family will receive a thirty (30)
   day written notice of any increase in payments required.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Savings and Maintenance Escrow account balances for the AYBL Family will
   be transferred to the DCHA project-based account for the affected Rewards
   Property.

   9818.4. If the removal of the household member does not result in a change in
   required bedroom size, but does result in a reduction in the Earned Income of
   the Lessee(s) to a level below the minimum AYBL program income requirement,
   the remaining members will have six (6) months to increase the Earned Income
   level to the minimum AYBL income requirement.
   
   
   
   9818.5 	For income changes that are reported timely to DCHA, the Lessee(s)
   shall receive a thirty (30) day written notice of any increase in
   Savings/Maintenance Escrow or AYBL Tenant Rent payment amounts based on
   completed recertifications.  Any decrease will be effective as of the first
   (1st) of the month following the report of the income change.

   9818.6. If the Lessee(s) has misrepresented or failed to submit timely to DCHA
   any facts used in the determination of rent and savings/maintenance escrows,
   whether intentionally or by mistake, DCHA shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Calculate what the AYBL Family’s Standard Rent would have been had the
   proper information been submitted timely to DCHA by the Lessee;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Determine the difference between the Escrow/Rent payments made by the AYBL
   Family during the period in which the additional income went unreported and
   the Standard Rent calculated using the correct information, and post the
   difference to the tenant account;  and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Terminate the Contract of Participation.

   9818.7. For instances of unreported income, DCHA shall issue a written notice
   of any charges due.  These additional charges will be due thirty (30) days
   from the date of the notice.  A failure to accurately report income,
   deductions, family composition or any other information may result in lease
   enforcement, legal action taken by DCHA or law enforcement agencies.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Mandatory Earned Income Disregard shall not apply to AYBL Families.
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2460, 2475 (March 18,
   2011).
