                                  DC REGULATIONS

AYBL PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATION (ยง 14-9806)

9806.1. Only AYBL Applicant families who are determined eligible and
   successful in being selected in the appropriate lottery will be placed on an
   AYBL Site-based Transfer Waiting List(s) for which the family has chosen to be
   listed.
   
   
   
   9806.2    	AYBL Family will be selected without regard to race, color,
   religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.

   9806.3. The DCHA shall consider an AYBL Applicant Family eligible for
   participation in the AYBL program if the AYBL Applicant Family meets the
   following criteria:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Is a current DCHA Public Housing family and has been a resident for at least
   one (1) year;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Bedroom size requirement meets the unit composition of the Reward Property and
   established DCHA Occupancy Standards of this chapter;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Income eligible: minimum earned income of the potential borrower/co-borrower
   of thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) from employment or in the case where
   the potential borrower/co-borrower is elderly and/or disabled certain unearned
   income (for example, SSI, SSDI, pension payments, etc.) may be counted toward
   the thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) minimum.  DCHA may from time to
   time change the minimum income eligibility requirement.  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The family may not include any person who has held an ownership interest in a
   residence during the three (3) years prior to commencement in AYBL, except as
   follows:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Equitable interest in a property under the terms of a lease-purchase agreement
   prior to exercise of the purchase option;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   An individual who is now single, but had previously owned a home with his or
   her former spouse even within the three (3) year period;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A household in which a family member is a person with a disability, if
   homeownership assistance is needed as a reasonable accommodation; and
   
   
   
   (4) 	A family that owns or is acquiring shares in a cooperative.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be a DCHA resident in Good Standing:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Timely completion of scheduled and interim recertifications;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   No instances of unreported income;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   No current debt owed (i.e., rent, excess utility charges, maintenance charges,
   etc.) to DCHA, federally funded housing program, and any court or in-house
   repayment agreements must be paid off prior to application to the AYBL
   program.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   No more than one (1) late rental payment within the twelve (12) months prior
   to submission of an AYBL application provided that the payment is received
   within the month that the rent is charged.  For other charges (i.e., excess
   utility charges, maintenance charges, etc.)  payment must have been made
   within thirty (30) days of the date of the charge.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Passed scheduled DCHA inspections that were conducted in the unit within the
   past twelve (12) months from the date of AYBL application submission;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   No legal actions for non-curable violations of the lease within the last five
   (5) years at the time of AYBL application submission;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   No repeated breaches of other terms of the Lease by the Lessee(s) or any
   household member identified in the Public Housing dwelling lease;
   
   
   
   (8)    	Pass a separate DCHA AYBL Home Visit inspection.
   
   
   
   (9)   	Pass a criminal background check that will be conducted on all
   household members who are eighteen (18) years of age or older pursuant to 14
   DCMR ยง 6109.

   9806.4. At the time a unit offer is made, the family must continue to be in
   compliance with the eligibility requirements of the program and the qualifying
   bedroom size based on their current family composition.  If the family is
   determined not to require the bedroom size for which they were initially
   placed on the waiting list, the family will be placed at the bottom of the
   waiting list for the appropriate bedroom size if such a bedroom size exists at
   the property.  If the family is determined to be ineligible, they will be
   removed from the waiting list.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   While on an AYBL Site-based Transfer Waiting List, applicants will be
   responsible for reporting any changes to income and household composition to
   DCHA.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   When an AYBL Family has been on an AYBL Site-based Transfer Waiting List for
   more than one (1) year prior to a unit coming available at a Rewards Property,
   DCHA will update the screening information to determine if the family is still
   eligible before assigning the family an available unit.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If the family is determined to be no longer eligible for the AYBL program,
   DCHA will notify the family in writing.  The notification will include the
   reason for the ineligibility determination.
   
   
   
   9806. 5 	The AYBL Family will be required to execute a Contract of
   Participation and the ITSP form within fourteen (14) calendar days of
   notification of availability of a Rewards Property unit.

   9806.6. Once the Contract of Participation has been executed, the AYBL Family
   must execute the Dwelling Lease and move into the Rewards Property unit,
   within ten (10) calendar days of a Rewards Property unit becoming available.
   The AYBL Family is responsible for relocation costs.
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2460, 2463 (March 18,
   2011).
