                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACT OF PARTICIPATION (§ 14-9817)

9817.1. A Contract of Participation must be executed by the Lessee(s) of the
   AYBL Family prior to entering into a Dwelling Unit Lease Agreement for a
   Rewards Property.

   9817.2. AYBL participants must comply with the terms and conditions of the
   Dwelling Unit Lease Agreement and AYBL lease addendum.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Failure to abide by the terms of the Contract of Participation shall be
   
   	considered a violation of the lease and/or AYBL lease addendum.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Contract Term &#8211; Term of the Contract of Participation cannot exceed
   five (5) years and will be established in consultation with the AYBL Family,
   based on the agreed upon timeframes for achieving the goals related to
   homeownership.
   
   
   
   9817.5 	If at the end of the contract term, the AYBL Family successfully
   completes the Contract of Participation and is an active participant in HOAP,
   the family may request a six (6) month extension of the Contract of
   Participation.  Approval of an extension is at the sole discretion of DCHA. 
   If at the end of the initial six (6) month extension and the AYBL Family has
   complied with all of the HOAP requirements and is actively looking for a home,
   an additional six (6) month extension may be granted at the sole discretion of
   DCHA.
   
   
   
   9817.6     	Requests for extensions of the contract term must be submitted to
   DCHA in writing in a form approved by DCHA at least thirty (30) days prior to
   the end of the Contract of Participation or extension and must include
   evidence justifying the request.

   9817.7. The ITSP, in addition to identifying homeownership as the AYBL
   Family’s end goal, will establish interim goals by which the ABYL Family’s
   progress in fulfilling its obligations will be measured.  Mandatory minimum
   interim goals to be included in the ITSP and thereby required by the Contract
   of Participation are that the AYBL Family:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Has been admitted in the HOAP;  or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Is under contract to purchase a home
   
   
   
   9817.8 	The ITSP, in addition to identifying homeownership as the AYBL Family
   end goal, will establish interim goals by which the ABYL family’s progress
   in fulfilling its obligations will be measured.  Mandatory minimum interim
   goals to be included in the ITSP and thereby required by the Contract of
   Participation are that the AYBL Family:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Has been admitted into the HOAP; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Is under contract to purchase a home.

   9817.9. Modification of the Contract of Participation – DCHA and the AYBL
   Family may mutually agree to modify the Contract of Participation.  The
   Contract of Participation may be modified in writing with respect to the
   Individual Training and Services plans, the contract term, and designation of
   the Head of Household.

   9817.10. Completion of the Contract of Participation – A Contract of
   Participation is considered to be completed and a family’s participation in
   AYBL is considered to conclude when the AYBL Family has fulfilled all of its
   obligations under the Contract of Participation on or before the expiration of
   the contract term, including any extension thereof.

   9817.11. Non-compliance will be determined based on the requirements of the
   Contract of Participation.  AYBL Families will be notified in writing for
   instances of non-compliance through the issuance of a Notice of
   Non-Compliance.

   9817.12. Termination of the Contract of Participation for reasons other than a
   breach of the Public Housing lease, in accordance with this section, may not
   result in the termination of Public Housing assistance.  If the Contract of
   Participation is terminated for reasons required to transfer to a non-Rewards
   Property unit in accordance with the AYBL transfer policy described in this
   chapter.

   9817.13. Termination of the Contract of Participation for reasons other than a
   breach of the Public Housing lease, in accordance with subsection
   9813.8(a)—(d), may not result in the termination of Public Housing
   assistance.  If the Contract of Participation is terminated for reasons
   required to transfer to a non-Rewards Property unit in accordance with the
   AYBL transfer policy described in this chapter.
   
   
   
   9817.14  	AYBL Families who successfully complete the Contract of
   Participation will transition to the HCVP/HOAP.  All members of the AYBL
   Family must vacate the AYBL unit at the conclusion of the family’s
   participation in the program whether by termination or successful completion
   of the Contract of Participation.
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2460, 2473 (March 18,
   2011); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4346, 4348
   (May 20, 2011).
