                                  DC REGULATIONS

SAVINGS ESCROW ACCOUNTS (§ 14-9814)

9814.1          	A Savings Escrow Account will be established for each
   participating AYBL Family.

   9814.2. The amount paid into their Savings Escrow Account by AYBL Families
   shall be twenty-eight percent (28%) of the Earned Income of each AYBL
   participant.
   
   
   
   9814.3  	DCHA shall deposit the savings escrow funds of all AYBL Families into
   a single depository account that shall be invested in one (1) or more
   HUD-approved investments.
   
   
   
   9814.4    	The total of the combined savings escrow account funds shall be
   supported in the DCHA accounting records by a subsidiary ledger showing the
   balance applicable to each AYBL participant.  During the term of the Contract
   of Participation, DCHA shall credit periodically, but not less than annually,
   to each AYBL participant’s savings escrow account, the amount of the AYBL
   participant Savings Escrow payment.

   9814.5. The investment income for funds in the Savings Escrow Account will be
   prorated and credited to each AYBL Family’s Savings Escrow Account based on
   the balance in each family’s AYBL Savings Escrow Account at the end of the
   period for which the investment income is credited.
   
   
   
   9814.6  	Required AYBL participant savings escrow payments shall be adjusted
   to reflect any changes in the AYBL participant’s earned income. See Interim
   Recertification policies in this chapter for additional information related
   AYBL program requirements.

   9814.7. The primary purpose of the Savings Escrow account is to fund costs
   related to obtaining a mortgage (i.e., down payment).  These funds will be
   disbursed, minus any amount owed to DCHA by the AYBL Family, on behalf of the
   AYBL Family at the time of settlement.

   9814.8. Upon written request by an AYBL participant, and subsequent approval
   by DCHA, an interim disbursement may be made on behalf of the AYBL participant
   from the AYBL participant’s Savings Escrow account. DCHA may require any
   additional documentation supporting the request.
   
   
   
   9814.9 	Savings Escrow payments are due by the first (1st) of the month and
   will be treated as late payments if not received by the tenth (10th) of the
   month.    .
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2460, 2470 (March 18,
   2011).
