                                  DC REGULATIONS

AYBL SELECTION PREFERENCES AND LOTTERY (§ 14-9807)

9807.1 	In order to reoccupy an AYBL Rewards Property, units will be offered
   first to those AYBL eligible returning families based on the appropriate
   bedroom size.  If there are more returning eligible AYBL applicant families
   than available units, these families will be placed at the top of the
   Site-based Transfer Waiting List according to bedroom size and date of initial
   occupancy at that property.
   
   
   
   9807.2      	DCHA at its sole discretion may designate other Public Housing
   developments in the area surrounding a Rewards Property in which the current
   residents receive priority consideration for participation in the AYBL
   program. Eligible residents at the designated surrounding public housing
   properties will be given priority after returning residents for placement at
   Rewards Properties.
   
   
   
   9807.3        Residents at DCHA designated properties in the area surrounding
   the Rewards Property will be placed on the requested Reward Property
   Site-based Transfer Waiting list based on bedroom size and the results of a
   lottery.  If there are more returning eligible AYBL applicant families than
   available units, residents at DCHA designated properties in the area
   surrounding the Rewards Property will be placed on the Site-based Transfer
   Waiting List after any AYBL eligible returning families of the Rewards
   Property.  If there are too many eligible families from DCHA designated
   properties in the surrounding area to place at the Rewards Property and not
   enough appropriate bedroom sized units or slots on the Site-based Transfer
   Waiting List, DCHA will conduct a lottery to determine placement of the
   eligible families from the designated surrounding properties on the transfer
   waiting list pursuant to this section.
   
   
   
   9807.4  	After the returning ABYL families and residents at DCHA designated
   properties in the area surrounding the Rewards Property have been put on the
   Site-based Transfer Waiting list, and there is a need for additional families
   to occupy units at a Rewards Property, DCHA will conduct a lottery as defined
   in this section for all other AYBL eligible DCHA Public Housing residents.
   
   
   
   9807.5   	Only those AYBL applicant families that have been determined
   eligible for the
   
   AYBL program will be placed in a lottery pool to be selected for an AYBL
   Site-based Transfer Waiting list pursuant to this section.
   
   
   
   9807.6 	Applicants are assigned a number at the time they are determined
   eligible.  Once the eligibility determination process is complete, DCHA will
   conduct a public lottery overseen by a third party to determine which
   applicants will be selected for placement on an AYBL Site-based Transfer
   Waiting Lists according to bedroom size and property requested.

   9807.7. The size of AYBL Site-Based Transfer Waiting Lists will be based upon
   DCHA’s projected vacancy rates at each AYBL Rewards Property.  The size of
   AYBL Site-based Transfer Waiting Lists will be determined by DCHA, at its sole
   discretion, based on projected vacancies.

   9807.8. Once the required number of AYBL eligible families is selected from
   the lottery
   
   		pool to meet projected vacancies for an AYBL Rewards Property, the families
   will be placed on the AYBL Site-Based Transfer Waiting List based on the order
   the families were selected from the lottery pool.
   
   
   
   9807.9     		Once the AYBL Families are placed on an AYBL Site-based Transfer
   Waiting List, that Site-Based Transfer Waiting list will be closed.
   
   
   
   9807.10    	Once a AYBL Site-based Transfer Waiting List is closed, those AYBL
   Families who were in the lottery pool, but were not selected to be placed on a
   AYBL Site-based Transfer Waiting List, will be able to re-apply when DCHA
   determines to reopen the list.
   
   
   
   9807.11         	When there is not a sufficient number of eligible AYBL
   Families on an AYBL Site-based Transfer Waiting List to meet vacant unit
   projections for that property, the AYBL Site-based Transfer Waiting List will
   be opened and applications will be requested in accordance with the provisions
   of this chapter.
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2460, 2465 (March 18,
   2011).
