                                  DC REGULATIONS

REWARDS PROPERTIES (§ 14-9802)

9802.1. A Rewards Property is a Public Housing property or unit designated as
   an incentive of the DCHA AYBL program that will be used to encourage public
   housing families to move toward self-sufficiency.  The DCHA Board of
   Commissioners’, upon recommendation by the DCHA Executive Director, will
   designate Rewards Properties by resolution.  All or a specified number of
   units at a Rewards Property may be designated as homeownership preparation
   housing under the AYBL program.

   9802.2. Families selected to participate in the AYBL program and to live in
   Rewards Properties must meet specific criteria, including a determination of
   eligibility by DCHA as outlined in the AYBL program eligibility criteria in §
   9805 of this chapter.

   9802.3. The size of the program is determined by the number of total
   designated public housing units located at Rewards Properties.  This number
   may change over the lifetime of the program as new units/properties are added
   or removed at the sole discretion of DCHA.

   9802.4. AYBL Families may reside at Reward Properties until the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The family successfully purchases a home;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Contract of Participation expires;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DCHA terminates the family’s Contract of Participation;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The family breaches the Public Housing dwelling lease or AYBL lease addendum
   as determined in Landlord Tenant court;  or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The family is evicted, whichever comes first.
   
   
   
   9802.5 	In the event of termination of the Contract of Participation, the AYBL
   Family will be required to transfer to a non-Rewards Property unit in
   accordance with 14 DCMR chapter 64. The AYBL Family is responsible for
   relocation costs.

   9802.6. When a new Rewards Property is available for occupancy or a waiting
   list is re-opened at an existing Rewards Property, DCHA, based on its current
   tenant records, will identify those Public Housing residents who appear to
   meet the minimum AYBL income and bedroom size requirements.

   9802.7. DCHA will make a public announcement stating eligibility requirements
   and application deadlines. In addition, DCHA will notify those Public Housing
   residents in writing who may meet the eligibility requirements.
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2460, 2461 (March 18,
   2011).
