                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPORTING CHANGE OF INCOME AND INTERIM RECERTIFICATION (§ 14-9819)

9819.1. AYBL Families will be responsible for adhering to all recertification
   requirements in accordance with 14 DCMR § 6119(a)—(e).

   9819.2. DCHA shall have the right to require the Lessee (AYBL Head of
   Household) to attend rent/escrow review meeting(s) upon written request. 
   Lessee may request rent/escrow review(s) through the manager of his/her
   property at any time upon written request.  Lessee shall attend any meetings
   held to conduct rent/escrow review(s) at the time and place specified by DCHA
   or, if requested by the Lessee, at an alternative time during normal DCHA
   hours. Lessee shall provide to DCHA complete and accurate information,
   including documentation, as specified by DCHA.
   
   
   
   9819.3  	If the Lessee(s) has failed to comply with this subsection, including
   but not limited to misrepresentation or failure to submit timely to DCHA any
   facts used in the determination of rent and savings/maintenance escrows,
   whether intentionally or by mistake, DCHA shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Calculate what the AYBL Family’s Standard Rent would have been had the
   proper information been submitted timely to DCHA by the Lessee;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Take the difference between the Escrow/Rent payments made by the AYBL Family
   during the period in which the additional income went unreported and the
   Standard Rent.  The difference will be posted to the tenant account.

   9819.4. For instances of unreported income, DCHA shall issue a written notice
   of any charges due not less than thirty (30) days from the date of the notice.
    A failure to accurately report income, deductions, family composition or any
   other information may result in legal action taken by DCHA or law enforcement
   agencies.

   9819.5. The Mandatory Earned Income Disregard shall not apply to AYBL
   Families.
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2460, 2476 (March 18,
   2011).
