                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR A CERTIFICATE OF TITLE (§ 18-401)

401.1. The application for a certificate of title shall be made by the owner
   and shall set forth the following:
   
   (a)	The owner’s true and lawful given name, middle name or names, if any,
   and surname; residence and business address, if any; driver’s license
   number; and date of birth;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the vehicle including (so far as the following data
   exists) make, model, year of manufacture, type of body, identifying number,
   manufacturer’s shipping weight, and whether the vehicle is new or used;
   
   
   
   (c)	The date of purchase by applicant; the name and address of the person from
   whom the vehicle was acquired; and the names and addresses of any lien holders
   in the order of their priority and the dates of their respective security
   agreements;
   
   
   
   (d)	Any further information which is reasonably required by the Director to
   identify the vehicle and to enable the Director to determine whether the owner
   is entitled to a certificate and whether there exists any security interest in
   the vehicle;
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement as to the kind of identification tags desired or a statement
   that the applicant does not intend to register the vehicle; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Proof of District of Columbia residency for at least one owner; except
   that a vehicle owned by an out-of-state lessor and leased to a District of
   Columbia resident may apply and an out-of-state insurance company may apply in
   connection with an insurance claim if the vehicle is located in the District.

   401.2. If the applicant knows or has reason to know that the vehicle has been
   registered in the District or in any other jurisdiction as a taxicab,
   commercial vehicle, or for livery or sightseeing purposes, the application
   shall indicate the prior registration by one of the following, as appropriate:
   “x taxi,” “x commercial,” “x livery,” or “x sightseeing.”

   401.3. Each application shall be executed by the owner(s) of the vehicle for
   which a certificate is sought, except that an application of an owner serving
   in the Armed Forces outside the borders of the United States may be signed in
   the name of the owner by the owner’s spouse or next of kin upon proof of the
   relationship satisfactory to the Director.

   401.4. If the application refers to a new vehicle it shall be accompanied by a
   certificate of manufacture or such other proof of ownership as the Director
   may reasonably require.

   401.5. If the application refers to a vehicle previously registered in the
   District, the application shall be accompanied by a certificate or other proof
   of ownership that the Director may reasonably require.

   401.6. If the application refers to a judicial sale, the application shall be
   accompanied by a bill of sale from the person authorized to make the sale and
   a certified copy of the court order that authorized the sale.

   401.7. If the application refers to a vehicle last previously registered
   elsewhere than in the District, the application shall be accompanied by one
   (1) of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any certificate of title issued by the other jurisdiction;
   
   
   
   (b)	If no certificate of title is or, during the period in which the vehicle
   was last registered, was required by the other jurisdiction, the evidence of
   ownership shall be in the form which is or was required by the other
   jurisdiction for the purpose of registering the vehicle in that jurisdiction;
   or
   
   
   
   (c)	If no such proof of ownership is specified in the other jurisdiction, an
   invoice or bill of sale signed by the transferor(s) of the vehicle to the
   applicant and bearing the sworn statement of the transferor(s) to the effect
   that the transferor(s) is (are) the sole owner(s) of the vehicle and that,
   except as specified in the invoice or bill of sale, there is no lien
   outstanding against the vehicle, if that is true; otherwise a full statement
   covering any security interest in the vehicle.

   401.8. If the application is submitted by the holder of a lien under any
   security interest who has possession of the vehicle, the application shall be
   accompanied by any outstanding certificate and the vehicle registration plates
   removed from the vehicle (or a statement explaining the absence of the
   certificate and plates satisfactory to the Director), and a duly authenticated
   copy of the instrument which created the interest(s).

   401.9. If the application is submitted by a purchaser from a lien holder at a
   sale of a vehicle by the lien holder, the application shall be accompanied by
   a duly authenticated bill of sale from the person authorized to make the sale
   and the registration plates removed from the vehicle (or a statement
   explaining the absence of the plates satisfactory to the Director).

   401.10. If the application is submitted by a surviving joint owner or owners,
   the application shall be accompanied by any outstanding certificate (or a
   statement explaining its absence to the satisfaction of the Director) and by a
   duly authenticated death certificate referring to the deceased joint owner or
   owners.

   401.11. If the application indicates that the applicant does not desire to
   register the vehicle, the application shall contain the number of the current
   District of Columbia inspection sticker or any further reasonable proof of
   identification of the vehicle that may be required by the Director.

   401.12. Except when a District of Columbia title accompanies the application,
   each application must be accompanied by a certificate of a person authorized
   by the Director stating that the identifying number of the vehicle has been
   inspected and found to conform to the description given in the application, or
   any other proof of the identity of the vehicle which the Director may
   reasonably require.

   401.13. If the identification number of any vehicle is defaced or missing, the
   owner of the vehicle shall make application to the Director for a DMV number.
   The Director shall issue a plate or plates bearing a DMV number which shall be
   affixed to the vehicle in the manner prescribed by him or her. That number
   shall thereafter be the lawful identification number of the vehicle. The
   affixation of the plate or plates shall be verified by the Director prior to
   the issuance of any certificate of title for the vehicle.

   401.14. Motor numbers shall not be used as a means of identification on
   certificates. In place of motor numbers, the Vehicle Identification Number or,
   if none, the serial number, of the vehicle will be used in all title
   applications and on the face of titles, as well as on other documents issued
   or kept for record purposes.

   401.15. In the event an application for title involves a vehicle for which
   District certificate is outstanding, no verification by a inspection station
   shall be required if the application is accompanied by the sticker number of
   an official inspection sticker affixed to the windshield, a legible tracing of
   the serial number, and the certificate number.

   401.16. In determining the fair market value of a vehicle for the purposes of
   calculating the amount of tax due under § 6(j) of the Traffic of 1925,
   approved July 3, 1926 (43 Stat. 1121; D.C. Official Code § 50-2201.03(j))
   (2001), the Director shall use the then current National Automobile Dealers
   Association (NADA) Guide for the Eastern Region. If the NADA guide does not
   provide the fair market value for a particular vehicle, the applicable bill of
   sale shall be used.

   401.17. An application for a title, other than a duplicate title, shall not be
   accepted unless all of the new owner’s outstanding fines, fees, and
   penalties imposed pursuant to the District of Columbia Traffic Adjudication
   Act of 1978, effective September 12, 1978 (D.C. Law 2-104; D.C. Official Code
   § 50-2301.01 et seq.) have been satisfied.

   401.18. If the application is submitted by a purchaser of a vehicle sold by a
   trustee in bankruptcy, the application shall be accompanied by a duly
   authenticated bill of sale from the trustee in bankruptcy and a certificate of
   title signed by the current owner or assigned by the trustee in bankruptcy in
   accordance with § 406.11.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 930 (February 4, 2005); as
   amended by D.C. Act 15-704 published at 52 DCR 1700 (February 25, 2005); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 5754 (June 17, 2005); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 1575 (February 16, 2007).
