                                  DC REGULATIONS

TRANSFER OF CERTIFICATES OF TITLE (§ 18-402)

402.1. If an owner transfers interest in a vehicle, other than by the creation
   of a security interest, he shall, within four (4) business days after the
   delivery of the vehicle, execute an assignment and warranty of title to the
   transferee in the space provided on the certificate or as the Director
   prescribes, and cause the certificate and assignment to be delivered to the
   transferee. If no certificate is outstanding, the transferor shall deliver the
   proof of ownership prescribed in § 401.

   402.2. An application for title by any person acquiring a vehicle which is
   titled in the name of a deceased person shall be accompanied by an assignment
   of ownership executed by the decedent’s personal representative and an
   authenticated copy of the letters testamentary or administration issued to the
   representative by an appropriate court. If the vehicle is the subject of a
   small estate order and is a scheduled asset in the order, the person in whose
   name the probate court vests title in the vehicle may make the assignment. An
   authenticated copy of the small estate order shall accompany the application
   for a new certificate.

   402.3. In the case of deceased person who was a national of a foreign country
   whose certificate was issued free because of diplomatic status, an application
   for a new title shall be accompanied by a letter from the Embassy or Mission
   to which the deceased person was attached, stating that the transfer of
   ownership is desired. The letter shall be signed by the Ambassador or one of
   the First Secretaries, or, in the absence of both, the Charge D’Affaires.

   402.4. If a dealer transfers a new vehicle to any person, that dealer shall,
   within four (4) business days after the transfer, deliver to the transferee a
   certificate of manufacture, except that in the case of a transferee who is a
   duly accredited representative of a foreign government, the certificate need
   not be delivered within the four (4) day period but shall be delivered as soon
   after delivery of the vehicle as possible.

   402.5. For purposes of § 402.4, the term “dealer” means a new car dealer
   registered in accordance with this title, banks, finance companies, and other
   persons holding a certificate of manufacture with the right to assign that
   certificate.

   402.6. If a dealer acquires a vehicle, holds it for resale, and procures the
   certificate from the owner or the lien holder, that dealer need not apply for
   a new certificate but, upon transferring the vehicle to another person (other
   than by the creation of a security interest), shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Promptly execute the assignment and warranty of title by a dealer, showing
   the names and addresses of the transferee(s) and any lien holder holding a
   security interest created or reserved at the time of the resale and the date
   of his or her security agreement in the spaces provided on the certificate, or
   as the Director prescribes; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Deliver the certificate to the Director with the transferee’s
   application for a new certificate.

   402.7. If a dealer acquires a vehicle and no certificate or certificate of
   title is procured by the dealer, that dealer shall, within five (5) business
   days after acquisition of the vehicle, make application on a form provided by
   the Director accompanied by such proof of ownership as the Director may
   reasonably require and the fee prescribed for a dealer’s proof of ownership.
   Upon disposition of the vehicle, the dealer shall assign to the transferee the
   dealer’s proof of ownership.

   402.8. Only new car dealers, used car dealers, and their salespersons
   registered in accordance with this title may reassign any certificate,
   certificate of title, dealer’s proof of ownership, or other vehicle
   ownership documents. A dealer registered as a dealer in motor vehicle
   equipment or services under this title shall not be so authorized.

   402.9. Effective September 21, 2004, if all reassignment spaces on the back of
   a certificate of title are filled in, a dealer may apply to the Director for a
   Dealer’s proof of ownership.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 11341 (December 10, 2004); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 9084 (August 22, 2008).
