                                  DC REGULATIONS

SURRENDER OF OWNERS IDENTIFICATION TAGS AND REGISTRATION CARD (§ 18-415)

415.1. A registrant who loses or disposes of his or her ownership of a vehicle
   for which valid registration is outstanding shall remove, or cause to be
   removed, the owner’s identification tags from the vehicle.

   415.2. Any person who acquires ownership of a vehicle on which are displayed
   identification tags issued to another person by the District or any other
   jurisdiction, shall remove the tags and deliver them, with the registration
   card (if it is in the vehicle at the time of acquisition) to the owner of the
   tags or the Director, not later than the next business day following
   acquisition. If the tags are returned to the owner and he or she is a
   registrant, he or she shall comply with the provisions of § 415.3 of this
   section.

   415.3. Unless the registrant shall within five (5) business days (which time
   may be extended by the Director for cause shown) after the loss or disposal of
   ownership, acquire another vehicle, he or his agent shall, within that time,
   deliver to the Director the owner’s identification tags accompanied by the
   registration card.

   415.4. Upon receiving the registration card and identification tags, the
   Director shall issue, upon demand, a receipt thereof and cancel the
   registration and tags. Those tags shall not be issued to any other person
   during the then current registration period and may be mutilated or disposed
   of by the Director.

   415.5. The registrant and the holder of a reciprocity sticker shall
   immediately return to the Director the identification tags and registration
   certificate, or the reciprocity sticker when any one of the following
   conditions are satisfied:
   
   
   
   (a)	The registrant or the individual no longer possesses a valid motor vehicle
   insurance policy or a valid certificate of self-insurance required pursuant to
   the No-Fault Insurance Act;
   
   
   
   (b)	The motor vehicle is no longer insured pursuant to the No-Fault Insurance
   Act;
   
   
   
   (c)	The registrant’s registration or the individual’s reciprocity
   privileges have been revoked or suspended pursuant to this title;
   
   
   
   (d)	The identification tags, registration certificate, or reciprocity sticker
   was issued in error, following written notice by the Department.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 8108 (Aug 20, 2004).
