                                  DC REGULATIONS

TRANSFER OF REGISTRATION TO ANOTHER VEHICLE (§ 18-416)

416.1. A registrant who acquires a vehicle and desires the transfer of
   identification tags from a vehicle currently registered in his or her name to
   the newly-acquired vehicle shall, within five (5) business days after the
   acquirement, request the Director to prepare an application to transfer the
   valid registration and owner’s identification tags to the newly-acquired
   vehicle.

   416.2. The request shall be accompanied by the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	An executed application for a certificate of title for the newly-acquired
   vehicle;
   
   
   
   (b)	All required fees (for the certificate; excise tax, if any; fee for
   transfer of registration; and fee for mechanical inspection, if any, for the
   newly-acquired vehicle); and
   
   
   
   (c)	Valid registration card for the earlier-acquired vehicle or an executed
   statement explaining its absence.

   416.3. Upon receipt of the request, accompanied by the items listed in §
   416.2, the Director shall prepare an application for the transfer containing
   the information which appears on the certificate for the newly-acquired
   vehicle and other information that the Director may desire, including the
   number of the owner’s identification tags, and deliver it to the owner whose
   name appears on the request or the owner’s agent.

   416.4. The acquired vehicle shall not be operated with the owner’s
   identification tags assigned for use on the earlier-acquired vehicle, unless
   and until a transfer of registration has been issued by the Director.

   416.5. When a vehicle is acquired from a new car dealer or used car dealer and
   the required items are delivered to the dealer for delivery to the Director,
   the acquired vehicle may be operated on the owner’s identification tags of
   the earlier-acquired vehicle for a period not to exceed forty-five (45) days,
   unless extended by the Director.

   416.6. In addition to the requirements of §§ 416.4 and 416.5, the acquired
   vehicle shall also conform to the Motor Vehicle Safety Inspection Standards
   and a temporary registration card shall been issued to the registrant by the
   dealer, as provided in § 505, and accompany the vehicle while being operated.

   416.7. The dealer shall deliver to the Director all papers and fees required
   by §§ 416.1 and 416.2 within five (5) business days after issuance of the
   temporary registration card.

   416.8. If one or more of the joint registrants of a vehicle for which a valid
   registration is outstanding acquires the interest or interests of one or more
   of the other joint owners by death, the surviving joint registrant(s) shall,
   within five (5) business days after acquiring the interest, request the
   Director to prepare an application to transfer the registration.

   416.9. The request for transfer of interest shall be accompanied by the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	An executed application for a certificate of title;
   
   
   
   (b)	Fees for the certificate of title and transfer; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The valid registration card in the names of the joint owners.

   416.10. Upon receipt by the Director of a request for transfer of interest,
   accompanied by the required items, the Director shall prepare an application
   for the transfer containing the information which appears on the certificate
   issued to the owner who has acquired the interest, and deliver it to the owner
   or the agent of the owner.

   416.11. When satisfied that the registrant named in the application is
   entitled to transfer registration to the vehicle described in the application,
   the Director shall mark the records of the Department accordingly and issue to
   the owner a registration card marked “TRANSFER” and deliver the card to
   the registrant or his or her agent.

   416.12. Identification tags issued in connection with the registration of a
   motor vehicle or trailer may not be transferred to another owner or owners,
   except under the following circumstances.
   
   
   
   (a)	For tags bearing the identification numbered “1,” “2,” and
   “3,” assigned respectively to the Mayor of the District of Columbia, the
   Chairman of the Council of the District of Columbia, and the City
   Administrator;
   
   
   
   (b)	For tags bearing the identification “Chairman, City Council,”
   “Council Member, At-Large A” through “Council Member, At-Large D,”
   inclusive; “Council Member Ward 1” through “Council Member, Ward 8,”
   inclusive, assigned to members of the Council of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (c)	For tags bearing the identification “Member U.S. Congress 1,” issued
   to the District of Columbia’s Delegate to the United States Congress; and
   
   
   
   (d) 	For tags assigned to members of the State Board of Education, bearing
   either the identification “Board of Education, At-Large” or “Board of
   Education, Ward 1” through “Board of Education, Ward 8,” inclusive, or
   any other designation chosen by the Mayor to demonstrate membership in the
   State Board of Education.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 930 (February 4, 2005); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking at 52 DCR 5754 (June 17, 2005); as amended by the
   State Board of Education License Plate Amendment Act of 2010, effective March
   23, 2010 (D.C. Law 18-126), published at 57 DCR 1181 (February 5, 2010).
