                                  DC REGULATIONS

LOST, STOLEN, OR MUTILATED IDENTIFICATION TAGS (§ 18-417)

417.1. If identification tags issued by the Director for use on a vehicle are
   lost or stolen, the person suffering the loss or theft shall report that fact
   to a Metropolitan Police Department precinct within twenty-four (24) hours
   after discovery of the loss or theft.

   417.2. If the person desires to replace lost or stolen identification tags, he
   or she shall, within five (5) business days after discovery of the loss,
   surrender any remaining identification tag and the registration card and make
   application to the Director for a new registration card and new identification
   tags.

   417.3. The application shall be accompanied by the registration card for the
   lost or stolen tags or a statement explaining the loss.

   417.4. If the applicant’s tags were stolen, the application shall also be
   accompanied by a statement over the signature of a duly authorized member of
   the Metropolitan Police Department Auto Theft Section that a report of the
   theft has been received by the Auto Theft Section.

   417.5. If the applicant’s tags were lost, the application shall be
   accompanied by a written statement filed with the Director explaining the
   circumstances surrounding the loss of the tags.

   417.6. If the identification tags issued by the Director for use on a motor
   vehicle or trailer become mutilated, and the person whose name appeared on the
   registration card which accompanied the tags at the time of issue desires new
   tags, he or she shall, within five (5) business days after the tags become
   mutilated, make application to the Director for a new registration card and
   new identification tags.

   417.7. The application shall contain the facts relating to the mutilation and
   other information required by the Director. The application shall be
   accompanied by the registration card for the mutilated tags or a written
   statement explaining its absence), and the mutilated tags. The Director, upon
   demand, will issue a receipt for the mutilated tags.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 5029 (May 14, 2004).
