                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION (§ 18-413)

413.1. REPEALED

   413.2. REPEALED

   413.3. Each application shall contain the information that appears on the
   certificate that is outstanding for the vehicle, including the current
   residence address of the applicant and any other information as the Director
   may determine. The Director shall deliver the application to the owner whose
   name appears on it or to the owner’s agent.

   413.4. The Director shall not prepare an application for registration for a
   vehicle unless and until the owner of the vehicle has secured a certificate of
   title for the vehicle.

   413.5. When satisfied that the owner named in the application is entitled to
   registration of the vehicle described in the application, and upon receipt of
   all fees prescribed in this chapter (including a delivery charge to be
   determined by the Director in the event the owner desires identification tags
   or special bus identification forwarded to him or her), the Director shall
   issue to the owner a registration card and two (2) owner’s identification
   tags, and may also issue a temporary registration card that an owner who has
   renewed registration online may access and print from the Department’s
   website.

   413.6. Only one (1) identification tag shall be issued for a motorized
   bicycle, motorcycle, or trailer.

   413.7. Identification tags shall be of the size, color, design, and material
   prescribed by the Director.

   413.8. Identification tags are to be used solely for the operation of the
   vehicle described on the registration card.

   413.9. The Director, when satisfied that the owner named in the application is
   entitled to registration of a prorated interstate bus and does not request
   identification tags, shall issue to such owner a registration card and in
   place of identification tags a special bus identification sticker. Each
   sticker shall be used solely for the operation of the bus described on the
   registration card which accompanied the sticker at the time of issuance.

   413.10. Any application for a vehicle to be used as a taxicab, bus, for
   livery, for sightseeing purposes, or as a hearse shall be presented to an
   inspection station, accompanied by the vehicle. If the inspection station
   approves the vehicle for such use, the approval shall be placed on the
   application by the inspection station.

   413.11. Each application for registration of the following types of vehicles
   shall be accompanied by a certificate of inspection and approval from an
   inspection station: motor cranes, commercial vehicles, trailers and
   semi-trailers, motorcycles, and all vehicles sold at public auction.

   413.12. The application for registration shall contain space for the applicant
   to furnish the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the insurance company that has provided the applicant with a
   motor vehicle insurance policy;
   
   
   
   (b)	The insurance policy number or binder number;
   
   
   
   (c)	The applicant’s signature;
   
   
   
   (d)	The applicant’s social security number; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Any other information that the Director may require.

   413.13. Motor Vehicles, other than buses, displaying irremovable commercial
   advertisement or insignia may be considered commercial vehicles by the
   Director for registration purposes.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 2067 (March 4, 2005); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 847 (February 10, 2006); and Final
   Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 339 (January 11, 2008).
