                                  DC REGULATIONS

TRANSFER OF PERSONALIZED IDENTIFICATION TAGS (ยง 18-425)

425.1. Personalized tags may be transferred to a transferee of a motor vehicle
   at any time upon payment by the transferee of the twenty-five dollars ($
   25.00) reservation fee and all other fees required by law in the following
   circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	Where a motor vehicle is registered in the name of a husband or wife, one
   of whom died leaving a will providing that the vehicle be deeded over to the
   surviving spouse;
   
   
   
   (b)	Where a joint ownership in a motor vehicle exists and ownership of the
   vehicle is transferred from both owners to either owner; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Where ownership of a motor vehicle in one or more persons is modified so
   that a joint ownership is created between the original owner or owners and an
   additional owner or owners.

   425.2. Personalized tags may be transferred at any time without payment of the
   twenty-five dollars ($ 25.00) reservation fee, upon payment by the transferee
   of a two dollars ($ 2.00) transfer fee and all other fees required by law, in
   the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	Where one party of a joint ownership in a motor vehicle dies and the
   surviving owner assumes ownership of the vehicle; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Where one spouse transfers ownership to both spouses jointly.

   425.3. Personalized tags on leased vehicles may be transferred by the owner of
   such tags from one motor vehicle to another at any time in the following
   circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	Where a person owns personalized tags for use on a leased vehicle and
   leases a replacement vehicle provided that the owner-lessee remains the same
   person, corporation, or other entity. In such cases a transfer fee of two
   dollars ($ 2.00) and any other fee required by law shall be paid by the
   lessee, but no reservation fee shall be required; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Where a person leases a replacement vehicle from a lessor different from
   the lessor-owner who owned the vehicle from which such tags are to be
   transferred. In such cases, the twenty-five dollars ($ 25.00) reservation fee
   shall be paid in addition to all other fees required by law.

   425.4. In all other cases not described in this section, transfer of
   personalized tags may take place only by an assignment under the provisions of
   ยง 424.
