                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIAL USE IDENTIFICATION TAGS (§ 18-426)

426.1. Upon request, the Director shall prepare and issue to any person
   special use identification tags and special use certificates to accompany such
   tags for use on a vehicle in connection with the acceptance of delivery of the
   vehicle, for official inspection of the vehicle, and for other purposes set
   forth in this section.

   426.2. Special use tags may be issued under circumstances in which it would be
   unreasonable or impractical to obtain a registration for a motor vehicle. The
   Director has authority to establish the specific purposes for which special
   use tags may be issued under this section.

   426.3. Special use tags shall be limited to the following purposes:
   
   
   
   (a)	To move unregistered motor vehicles or trailers from a point within the
   District to an inspection station in connection with the issuance of
   certificate or registration;
   
   
   
   (b)	To move an unregistered motor vehicle or trailer acquired outside the
   District by a resident of the District from the point of purchase to an
   inspection station in connection with the issuance of a certificate or
   registration;
   
   
   
   (c)	For the use of a nonresident who acquires a motor vehicle or trailer from
   an owner located in the District for the purpose of moving the vehicle or
   trailer to another jurisdiction; and
   
   
   
   (d)	For other special uses approved by the Director or his or her designee.

   426.4. Special use tags shall not constitute registration of a motor vehicle
   as required by § 2(a), Title IV, of the Act of August 17, 1937, as amended,
   and are not transferable.

   426.5. Special use tags shall be issued for a period not to exceed forty-five
   (45) days. The Director may, in his discretion for good cause shown, upon
   payment of the proper fee, issue special use tags for an additional forty-five
   (45) day period or periods.

   426.6. Special use identification tags shall be displayed in the same manner
   required for the display of motor vehicle identification tags in § 422 of
   this chapter.

   426.7. Special use certificates shall be carried in the vehicle bearing the
   special use tags for which the special use certificate was issued whenever the
   vehicle is being operated on the highways.

   426.8. Upon removal of special use tags from a vehicle, they shall be
   destroyed immediately by the person to whom issued or by his agent.

   426.9. The form, content, size, and type of special use tags shall be
   determined by the Director, except as specifically prescribed in this section.

   426.10. All entries on special use tags except the expiration date shall be
   legibly printed on each tag issued with a waterproof crayon or waterproof ink
   marking device.

   426.11. Special use certificates and special use identification tags shall
   contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The applicant’s true and lawful given name, middle name or names, if
   any, and surname;
   
   
   
   (b)	The applicant’s correct residence address;
   
   
   
   (c)	A description setting forth the vehicle’s trade name, model, year as
   given by the manufacturer, body type, and vehicle identification number;
   
   
   
   (d)	The date of expiration; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The purpose of use of such tags shall be stated on the special use
   certificate.

   426.12. The date of expiration shall be imprinted legibly on such special use
   identification tags in black ink with a rubber stamp in letters and numerals
   not less than three quarters of an inch (3/4 in.) in height, and not less than
   one-eighth of an inch (1/8 in.) in width.

   426.13. Special use identification tags shall only be issued to persons
   submitting, in addition to any other items required by the Director, the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Bill of sale for the vehicle, if purchased from a car dealer;
   
   
   
   (b)	Signed certificate of title, or fax as provided by § 426.14, or other
   proof of ownership satisfactory to the Director; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Proof of sufficient insurance coverage.

   426.14. Any dealer or financing company may fax a copy of a vehicle’s title
   or dealer’s proof of ownership, front and back, to the Department to
   establish proof of ownership as required by § 426.13(b); except that the
   Department reserves the right to require the submission of the original
   documents.

   426.15. The Director shall not issue special use identification tags to
   residents of Maryland or Virginia, except as provided in § 426.16.

   426.16. Any dealer registered in the District of Columbia or their agent may
   obtain a special use identification tag by appearing at the Department on
   behalf of a customer from any jurisdiction; provided, that the customer
   authorizes the dealer to act as their agent by signing the form provided to
   the dealer by the Department.

   426.17. If a vehicle displaying a valid special use identification tag fails
   motor vehicle safety or emissions inspection, the initial special use
   identification tag may be removed by the DMV inspection station staff and a
   replacement special use identification tag may be issued.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 11341 (December 10, 2004); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 5754, 5757 (June 17, 2005); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 9084 (August 22, 2008).
