                                  DC REGULATIONS

ENFORCEMENT OF REGISTRATION AND RECIPROCITY REQUIREMENTS (§ 18-429)

429.1. All motor vehicle owners and operators who are legal residents of the
   District shall comply with all District motor vehicle licensing and
   registration laws, regulations and rules.

   429.2. Motor vehicle owners and operators who are not legal residents of the
   District but who are housing a motor vehicle within the District shall comply
   with §§ 411.3, 411.6, 411.7, and 411.8.

   429.3. This section shall be enforced as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	When an issuing officer observes a motor vehicle housed within the
   District that does not display District registration tags or a current
   reciprocity sticker the issuing officer shall record the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Date;
   
   
   
   (2)	Time;
   
   
   
   (3)	Location; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Vehicle tag number and jurisdiction of registration.
   
   
   
   (b)	If, after fifteen (15) days of the first sighting, an issuing officer
   observes the same vehicle housed within the District, the officer shall attach
   a warning notice stating that the vehicle may be in violation of the motor
   vehicle registration and licensing laws, regulations and rules of the
   District. The warning notice shall advise the owner or operator of the vehicle
   that enforcement actions including, but not limited to, impoundment may be
   taken after fifteen (15) days (“warning period”) if the vehicle is not in
   compliance with the District’s registration laws, regulations, and rules.

   429.4. A person may comply with the motor vehicle registration laws,
   regulations and rules by doing the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Obtaining District registration;
   
   
   
   (b)	Obtaining a reciprocity sticker; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Demonstrating that the motor vehicle is not in violation of District motor
   vehicle licensing and registration laws, regulations and rules.

   429.5. Any further observation of the non-complying motor vehicle after the
   warning period shall result in a notice of infraction being issued against the
   owner or operator for violation of District motor vehicle licensing and
   registration laws, regulations, and rules. The notice of infraction shall note
   the date that the warning notice was affixed.

   429.6. Each daily observation shall constitute a separate violation and shall
   result in the issuance of a separate notice of infraction.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 5814 (June 21, 2002).
