                                  DC REGULATIONS

DUPLICATE CERTIFICATES OF TITLES (§ 18-406)

406.1. The Director is authorized to issue a duplicate certificate of title
   if:
   
   
   
   (a)	A certificate is lost, stolen, destroyed, or illegally detained from the
   owner;
   
   
   
   (b)	The face or back of a certificate has been altered, erased, or mutilated
   by a person other than the Director;
   
   
   
   (c)	A certificate cannot be officially executed; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A vehicle is subject to a bankruptcy proceeding and the trustee in
   bankruptcy requires a duplicate certificate to sell the asset; provided the
   prerequisites of §§ 406.9 through 406.11 are met.

   406.2. The application shall contain reasons for requiring a duplicate
   certificate and lien information, if any.

   406.3. If the application is not accompanied by the certificate and there are
   recorded liens against the vehicle described on the certificate, the
   application must contain an executed statement from the lien holders or other
   evidence satisfactory to the Director that the lien holders do not hold the
   certificate.

   406.4. An application which contains information relating to a lien or liens
   which has(have) not been recorded or released by the Recorder shall be
   accompanied by the instrument(s) or any other papers necessary to entitle the
   lien(s) to be entered or released on the duplicate certificate.

   406.5. If, at the time of executing the application, an owner disposes of the
   vehicle described in the application, the owner may execute an assignment of
   the duplicate certificate for which he or she has just made application.

   406.6. The assignment shall be on a form attached to the application for the
   duplicate certificate and that form shall also provide for reassignment of the
   duplicate certificate by a new or used car dealer and for application for a
   new certificate by the owner who acquires the vehicle. The assignment (or the
   assignment and reassignment) is of no value unless and until the application
   is executed by acquirer and delivered to the Director. In such instances, the
   Director shall attach the form to the duplicate certificate issued by the
   Department.

   406.7. Assignments and reassignments of duplicate certificates shall be
   considered to be an assignment or reassignment of a certificate as required by
   this chapter.

   406.8. An application for a duplicate certificate of title shall be accepted
   regardless of the status of any outstanding fines, fees and penalties imposed
   pursuant to the District of Columbia Traffic Adjudication Act of 1978,
   effective September 12, 1978 (D.C. Law 2-104; D.C. Official Code § 50-2301.01
   et seq.).

   406.9. In order to apply for a duplicate certificate of title, a trustee in
   bankruptcy must provide a court order identifying the owner of the vehicle as
   the subject of a bankruptcy proceeding and naming the trustee in bankruptcy.

   406.10. The Director shall not issue a duplicate certificate of title to a
   trustee in bankruptcy if there are any recorded liens on the vehicle.

   406.11. In order to assign a duplicate certificate of title, the trustee in
   bankruptcy shall sign the back of the certificate adding the word
   “Trustee” after the signature, and provide the purchaser with a copy of
   the court order described in § 406.9.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 5754 (June 17, 2005); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 1575 (February 16, 2007).
