                                  DC REGULATIONS

MEETINGS (ยง 31-102)

102.1. The Commission shall hold regular meetings on the second Wednesday of
   January, March, May, July, September and November at 10:00 a.m., at the
   official offices of the Commission, or at any other place as the Chairperson
   may designate.

   102.2. The Commission shall hold work sessions, as necessary, to engage in
   briefings and to consider matters before the Commission on the first Tuesday
   of February, April, June, September, October and December at the official
   offices of the Commission, or at any other place as the chairperson may
   designate. The Commission may hold additional work sessions to carry out its
   statutory authority.

   102.3. The Panel on Adjudication shall hold regular meetings on the first and
   third Wednesday of each month from September to July inclusive, at 9:00 a.m.,
   at the official offices of the Commission, or at any other place as the
   Chairperson may designate. The Panel on Adjudication may schedule additional
   meetings necessary to carry out its functions.

   102.4. The Panel on Rates and Rules shall hold regular meetings, on the first
   and third Wednesday of each month from September to July, inclusive, at 9:00
   a.m., at the official offices of the Commission, or at any other place as the
   Chairperson may designate. The Panel on Rates and Rules may schedule
   additional meetings necessary to carry out its functions.

   102.5. The Committee on Education shall hold regular meetings on the second
   Tuesday of January, April, July, and October at 9:00 a.m., at the official
   offices of the Commission, or at any other place the Chairperson may
   designate.

   102.6. The Commission, its panels, and committees shall not meet on holidays,
   during the last two (2) weeks in December, or on snow emergency days as
   declared by the Mayor.

   102.7. The Chairperson may call special meetings of the Commission or its
   panels, and shall call additional meetings at the direction of the Commission
   or its Panels, by sending notice of the special or additional meeting not less
   than seven (7) days in advance. The notice shall state the matters to be
   considered. No other matter may be considered at the special or additional
   meeting except with the consent of all members of the Commission or panel
   present.

   102.8. By affirmative vote of a majority of Commissioners in office, the
   Commission may schedule or hold a closed executive session to discuss
   personnel, litigation, or other matters of a private or confidential nature.
   No official action may be taken in an executive session, and no records shall
   be kept of the session other than a record of the vote to schedule or hold the
   session.

   102.9. The Chairperson may have published in any newspaper of general
   circulation notice of any Commission meeting.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 6707, 6709 (October 23, 1987);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published 52 DCR 9711 (October 28, 2005); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published 53 DCR 1175 (February 17, 2006).
