                                  DC REGULATIONS

FILING REQUIREMENTS (ยง 11-2406)

2406.1. Each PUD application shall meet the requirements of this section
   before it will be accepted by the Commission for processing.

   2406.2. A PUD application may be filed in conjunction with a change in zoning
   for the property involved.

   2406.3. No PUD application shall be processed until the application is
   complete and all required fees are paid in accordance with the applicable fee
   schedule.

   2406.4. A PUD application may include property of one or more owners. The
   owner or owners may be public or private persons, corporations, agencies, or
   other entities.

   2406.5. The name, address, and signature of each owner of property included in
   the area to be developed, or of the owner&#8217;s authorized agent, shall be
   included in the PUD application.

   2406.6. The application shall be filed on a form as may be designated from
   time-to-time by the Commission.

   2406.7. At least ten (10) calendar days prior to filing an application under
   this chapter, the applicant shall mail written notice of its intent to file
   the application to the Advisory Neighborhood Commission for the area within
   which the property is located and to the owners of all property within two
   hundred feet (200 ft.) of the perimeter of the property in question.

   2406.8. The applicant may mail notice to any other person or organization the
   applicant determines appropriate to receive the notice.

   2406.9. The notice shall describe generally the proposed development,
   including the name of all owners of the property involved and the use, height,
   bulk, and other significant aspects of the proposal. The notice shall also
   indicate the applicant&#8217;s availability to discuss the proposed
   development with all interested and affected groups and individuals.

   2406.10. At the time of filing the application, the applicant shall certify to
   whom and in what manner the required notice was given.

   2406.11. An application for first-stage PUD approval shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A completed application form;
   
   
   
   (b)	A map showing the location of the proposed project, the existing zoning
   for the subject site, the zoning of adjacent properties, and any proposed
   change of zoning;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement of the purposes and objectives of the project, including the
   proposed form of development and a detailed statement elucidating how the
   application meets the PUD evaluation standards in ยง 2403;
   
   
   
   (d)	A general site, landscape, and development plan indicating the proposed
   use, location, dimensions, number of stories, and height of each building, and
   the exact area of the total site; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A tabulation of development data showing the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The area and dimensions of each lot proposed for each building and the
   exact area of the total site;
   
   
   
   (2)	The percentage of lot occupancy of each building on each lot and the total
   percentage of lot occupancy for all buildings on the entire site;
   
   
   
   (3)	The gross floor area and floor area ratio for each building on each lot,
   including a break-down for each use, and the total gross floor area and floor
   area ratio for all buildings on the entire site, including a breakdown for
   each use;
   
   
   
   (4)	A circulation plan, including the location of all vehicular and pedestrian
   access ways and the location and number of all off-street parking spaces and
   loading berths, including an indication of which spaces are designated for
   which use;
   
   
   
   (5)	The existing topography of the development area; the location of all major
   natural features, including trees of six-inch (6 in.) caliper or greater; and
   the location and elevations of public or private streets, alleys, or easements
   bounding or traversing the site, including an indication of which of the
   rights-of-way or easements are to be continued, relocated, or abandoned;
   
   
   
   (6)	Estimated quantities of potable water required by the project, and of
   sanitary sewage and storm water to be generated, including the methods of
   calculating those quantities; and
   
   
   
   (7)	Any other information needed to understand the unique character and
   problems of developing the PUD.

   2406.12. An application for second-stage PUD approval shall include the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A completed application form;
   
   
   
   (b)	A detailed statement as to the uses to be located in the project,
   including the location, number, size, and types of stores, offices,
   residential, institutional, industrial, and other uses;
   
   
   
   (c)	A detailed site plan, showing the location and external dimensions of all
   buildings and structures, utilities and other easements, walkways, driveways,
   plazas, arcades, and any other open spaces;
   
   
   
   (d)	A detailed landscaping and grading plan, showing all existing contour
   lines, including graphic illustration of grades exceeding fifteen percent
   (15%) in five percent (5%) increments, landscaping to be retained, grades,
   planting, and landscaping. The plan shall also show the proposed drainage for
   the site, including the location of buildings, roads, sidewalks, water and
   sewer lines, inlets, and basins, and connections to public water and sewer
   lines. Proposed erosion control measures shall also be shown;
   
   
   
   (e)	Typical floor plans and architectural elevations for each building,
   sections for each building and the project as a whole, and sections and
   elevations of the entire square within which the project is located;
   
   
   
   (f)	A final detailed circulation plan showing all driveways and walkways,
   including widths, grades, and curb cuts, as well as detailed parking and
   loading plans;
   
   
   
   (g)	Any other information needed to understand the final design of the
   proposal, or information specifically requested by the Commission; and
   
   
   
   (h)	A statement showing how the second-stage plans are in accordance with the
   intent and purposes of this title, the PUD process, and the first-stage
   approval.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 6613, 6621-25 (December 1,
   1995); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9741-43 (December 8,
   2000), incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at
   47 DCR 8335, 8516-17 (October 20, 2000).
