                                  DC REGULATIONS

INTERJURISDICTIONAL LIMOUSINE OPERATION &#8211; PERMIT REQUIRED (§ 31-1216)

1216.1. Any person who would be required to obtain a limousine for hire
   vehicle permit pursuant to D.C. Official Code § 50-313 and rules promulgated
   pursuant thereto may, in place of the permit, be issued an interjurisdictional
   limousine permit; provided that the person satisfies the conditions for the
   issuance of an interjurisdictional permit and the transportation provided by
   such person complies with the provisions of this section.

   1216.2. An interjurisdictional limousine permit only authorizes a person to
   pick-up passengers for hire in the District on a pre-arranged basis for
   destinations outside the District.

   1216.3. An applicant for an interjurisdictional vehicle permit shall satisfy
   the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Possess a valid vehicle registration which is valid for the transportation
   of persons by limousine within that state;
   
   
   
   (b)	Neither the applicant nor any person or business engaged in transporting
   passengers by motor vehicle for hire that is affiliated with the applicant has
   a place of business, a telephone number, or solicits business or specifically
   advertises in the District;
   
   
   
   (c)	The vehicle shall be driven only by the holder of a driver&#8217;s license
   that is valid for the for-hire operation of the vehicle;
   
   
   
   (d)	The vehicle shall be driven only by the holder of a for-hire vehicle
   driver&#8217;s license where the driver has submitted proof satisfactory to
   the Commission that the driver possesses a license or permit that was granted
   by a state or political subdivision and for which the driver has been
   fingerprinted for the purpose of securing and reviewing the driver&#8217;s
   criminal history records;
   
   
   
   (e)	The applicant has not had an interjurisdictional vehicle permit revoked or
   has not been refused renewal of an interjurisdictional vehicle permit; and
   
   
   
   (f)	A driver of a vehicle for which an interjurisdictional limousine permit
   has been obtained must be licensed by the Commission, unless the driver has
   been issued a certificate by the Commission indicating that the driver
   possesses a license or permit that was granted by a state or political
   subdivision and for which the driver has been fingerprinted for the purpose of
   securing and reviewing the driver&#8217;s criminal records.

   1216.4. The annual fee for an interjurisdictional permit, including any permit
   for any limousine operating within the District of Columbia under an
   authorization issued by the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Commission,
   shall be four hundred dollars ($400) per vehicle.

   1216.5. A fee of one hundred dollars ($100) shall be paid for each
   interjurisdictional limousine permit issued to replace a lost or mutilated
   permit, or a permit which has become obsolete as a result of the acquisition
   of new license plates.

   1216.6. If the Commission, after reviewing an application for an
   inter-jurisdictional limousine permit and after appropriate investigation and
   a hearing affording the applicant an opportunity to be heard, finds that the
   applicant made a material false statement or concealed a material fact in
   connection with the application, the Commission may deny issuance of the
   permit, refuse to renew, suspend or revoke any such permit.

   1216.7. A vehicle owner issued a permit pursuant to this section shall
   maintain the conditions of issuance of the permit as provided in this section.

   1216.8. A vehicle owner shall ensure that a valid Commission decal, evidencing
   an interjurisdictional limousine permit, is affixed to the front right side of
   the windshield of a vehicle so as to be plainly visible. Interjurisdictional
   limousine permits for vehicles registered outside of the District shall be
   affixed to the front right side window so as to be plainly visible.

   1216.9. No unauthorized entry shall be made on the interjurisdictional
   limousine permit or decal, nor shall any entry on any such vehicle permit or
   decal be changed or de faced.

   1216.10. An unreadable interjurisdictional limousine permit or decal shall
   immediately be surrendered to the Commission for replacement.

   1216.11. A vehicle owner who holds an interjurisdictional limousine permit
   shall pick up passengers on a prearranged basis only. Street hails and the use
   of stands are not permitted.

   1216.12. A vehicle owner who holds an inter-jurisdictional limousine permit
   shall not pick-up and discharge the same passenger(s) within the District
   unless the following occurs:
   
   
   
   (a)	As part of pre-arranged transportation which begins with the pick-up of
   the passenger(s) in the District and ends with the discharge of the
   passenger(s) outside of the District, temporary discharge and subsequent
   pick-up of the passenger(s) within the District occurs during the course of
   performing the pre-arranged transportation; and
   
   
   
   (b)	There is no unauthorized intra-District transportation provided to any
   other person who is not covered by the pre-arranged transportation agreement
   during any such period of discharge.

   1216.13. A vehicle owner shall ensure that a record of each transport
   authorized solely by an inter-jurisdictional limousine permit issued pursuant
   to § 1216.1 is entered prior to the commencement of the transport in a log
   carried in the vehicle. The record shall be kept for a period of one year
   after the transport. The record of each transport shall be written legibly in
   ink and include the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Passenger&#8217;s name;
   
   
   
   (b)	Time of scheduled pick up of passenger;
   
   
   
   (c)	Location of one temporary discharge, if applicable;
   
   
   
   (d)	Final destination of passenger; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The time of completion of the transport.

   1216.14. The log required by § 1216.13 shall be kept in the vehicle during
   inter-jurisdiction transport and shall be subject to inspection by any police
   officer, hack inspector, law enforcement official or other person authorized
   by the Commission. Failure to present a log maintained in the manner
   prescribed in § 1216.13 when requested by any such authorized person shall be
   presumptive evidence of intra-District operation in violation of this section.

   1216.15. A vehicle registered outside the District shall meet the inspection
   requirements provided by the state of registration. Authorized personnel of
   the Commission may conduct an on-street inspection of the vehicle. The
   Commission may order the vehicle owner to repair or replace the vehicle when
   it appears that it no longer meets the safety requirements prescribed by this
   chapter and the applicable state law or the safety requirements of the state
   of registration, as applicable.

   1216.16. A vehicle owner who holds an interjurisdictional limousine permit
   shall not permit the vehicle to be operated without daily personal inspection
   and reasonable determination that all equipment, including brakes, lights, and
   signals are in good working order and meet all the requirements of the
   applicable state law and this chapter.

   1216.17. A vehicle owner who holds an interjurisdictional limousine permit
   shall not permit the vehicle to be operated when the Commission or the
   District&#8217;s Bureau of Motor Vehicle Services has determined that the
   vehicle is unsafe or unfit for use as a for-hire vehicle and the vehicle owner
   has been directed to remove the vehicle from service.

   1216.18. A vehicle owner who holds an interjurisdictional limousine permit
   shall ensure that he or she promptly complies with all Commission notices and
   directives to correct observable defects in a vehicle which would result in
   the inability of the vehicle to pass a District inspection or an inspection in
   the state of registration.

   1216.19. A vehicle owner who holds an interjurisdictional limousine permit
   shall designate each and every driver who operates the vehicle as his or her
   agent for accepting service by Commission personnel of summonses or notices to
   correct defects in the vehicle. Delivery of the summons or notice to a driver
   shall be considered proper service of the summons or notice on the vehicle
   owner. The Commission shall send a copy of any summons or notice to the
   vehicle owner.

   1216.20. A for-hire limousine vehicle owner shall immediately notify the
   Commission of the theft, loss, or destruction of an interjurisdictional
   limousine permit or decal and furnish the Commission with an affidavit or such
   information as may be required, and shall replace the permit or decal.

   1216.21. The transfer of an interjurisdictional limousine permit between
   vehicles shall be prohibited.

   1216.22. Two hundred dollars ($200) of the annual fee in subsection 1216.4
   shall be used to increase enforcement of this section, including providing a
   list of approved limousine services to District hotels for service within
   District boundaries with a copy of applicable regulations.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 2812, 2826 (May 20, 1994); as
   amended by Fiscal Year 2010 Budget Support Act of 2009, effective March 3,
   2010 (D.C. Law 18-111), at 57 DCR 181, 295 (January 8, 2010).
