                                  DC REGULATIONS

MINIMUM EQUIPMENT (§ 17-3718)

3718.1. Each barber, braiding, and cosmetology salon or shop shall have the
   equipment required in this section.

   3718.2. There shall be at least one (1) sink with running hot and cold water
   for general salon or shop purposes, and at least one (1) sink with running hot
   and cold water for shampoo purposes.

   3718.3. Except for specialty braiding salons, there shall be an additional
   shampoo sink with hot and cold running water for each two chairs beyond the
   first; provided, that each shampoo sink shall not be located more than twenty
   feet (20&#8242;) from any chair which it is intended to serve and shall be
   located within the same room. For specialty braiding salons, there shall be an
   additional shampoo sink with running hot and cold water for each four (4)
   chairs beyond the first.

   3718.4. Any shampoo sink serving a chair or chairs or shampoo booth or booths
   shall be equipped with shampoo fittings and trim.

   3718.5. Shampoo sinks, other than those in booths, shall not be spaced closer
   than four feet (4&#8242;) center to center.

   3718.6. In existing salons or shops, the Director shall permit variations from
   the requirements of §3718.5 by not more than eighteen inches (18&#8243;).

   3718.7. All plumbing fittings and fixtures shall be designed and installed or
   operated to prevent the possibility of any cross-connection or interconnection
   between waste and potable water.

   3718.8. All salons or shops shall contain at least one (1) service sink not
   less than sixteen inches (16&#8243;) wide, sixteen inches (16&#8243;) long,
   and ten inches (10&#8243;) deep, with hot and cold running water, for
   custodial purposes only; provided, that where a part of a premises is used for
   custodial purposes, it shall be sufficient if the plumbing fixtures are
   provided within the building if the fixtures can be reached by a line of
   travel not exceeding one hundred feet (100&#8242;) without going outside the
   building.

   3718.9. There shall be closed storage cabinets for supplies, clean linens, and
   storage space for supplies and other materials used in a practice covered by
   these regulations.

   3718.10. In addition to the equipment required in §§3718.2 through 3718.9,
   each salon or shop shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Storage space for custodial equipment and supplies;
   
   
   
   (b)	Covered containers lined with disposable plastic bags for the daily
   removal of all waste materials;
   
   
   
   (c)	Supplies of appropriate disinfectant and fungicide;
   
   
   
   (d)	Clean laundered towels, hair capes, and shampoo capes;
   
   
   
   (e)	Neck strips and suitable dispenser;
   
   
   
   (f)	Hair dryers;
   
   
   
   (g)	Hairdressing stand or dresserette with a shelf and mirror; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Facial or all-purpose chair.

   3718.11. Each all-purpose cosmetology station or booth shall have the
   following equipment:
   
   
   
   (a)	All-purpose cosmetology chair;
   
   
   
   (b)	Covered container for disinfecting tools;
   
   
   
   (c)	Closed cabinet or covered container for clean tools;
   
   
   
   (d)	Shampoo dispenser;
   
   
   
   (e)	Waving fluid dispenser, if necessary;
   
   
   
   (f)	Container for waste materials; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Portable shampoo boards where necessary.

   3718.12. Each braider station shall have the following equipment:
   
   
   
   (a)	All-purpose cosmetology chair;
   
   
   
   (b)	All-purpose stool;
   
   
   
   (c)	Covered container for disinfecting tools;
   
   
   
   (d)	Closed cabinet or covered container for clean tools;
   
   
   
   (e)	Portable shampoo board and shampoo dispenser where necessary; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Closed container for waste materials.

   3718.13. Each barber chair shall have the following equipment:
   
   
   
   (a)	Barber chair with head rest having a changeable cover;
   
   
   
   (b)	One (1) or more covered containers for disinfecting and fungicidal
   solution;
   
   
   
   (c)	One (1) closed cabinet for tools and clean linen;
   
   
   
   (d)	One (1) closed container for soiled linen;
   
   
   
   (e)	One (1) closed container for used papers;
   
   
   
   (f)	Automatic lathering device or devices; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Clean headrest covers and suitable dispensers.

   3718.14. Each manicurist station shall have the following equipment:
   
   
   
   (a)	Manicuring stand, either stationary or movable, with a lamp;
   
   
   
   (b)	Closed cabinet or covered container for the storage of clean and
   disinfected manicuring instruments;
   
   
   
   (c)	Covered container of a size that will accommodate the instruments to be
   disinfected;
   
   
   
   (d)	Closed container for waste materials; and
   
   
   
   (e)	At least two (2) complete sets of manicuring instruments.

   3718.15. In addition to the equipment required in §§3718.7 through 3718.9.,
   each manicuring salon shall have the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Storage space for custodial equipment and supplies;
   
   
   
   (b)	Covered containers for all waste materials;
   
   
   
   (c)	Adequate supplies of appropriate disinfectant and fungicide;
   
   
   
   (d)	Clean laundered towels and additional facial or clasp exaspirator masks
   upon request for customers;
   
   
   
   (e)	Stationary or mobile manicuring stand with lamp and two chairs;
   
   
   
   (f)	Closed cabinet or covered container for storing clean and disinfected
   manicuring instruments;
   
   
   
   (g)	Adequately-sized covered container for disinfected instruments;
   
   
   
   (h)	One (1) general purpose sink with running hot and cold water for every
   twelve (12) manicure stations; and
   
   
   
   (i)	At least one (1) complete set of manicuring instruments per operator.

   3718.16. In addition to the equipment required in §§3718.2 through 3718.9,
   each esthetics salon shall have the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Storage space for custodial equipment and supplies;
   
   
   
   (b)	Each treatment room shall have a covered trash container;
   
   
   
   (c)	Supplies of appropriate disinfectant, fungicide, and astringent;
   
   
   
   (d)	Clean laundered towels and customer drapes for each customer;
   
   
   
   (e)	A facial or all-purpose chair or table;
   
   
   
   (f)	A closed cabinet or covered container for the storage of clean and
   disinfected instruments;
   
   
   
   (g)	A covered container of a size that will accommodate the instruments to be
   disinfected; and
   
   
   
   (h)	A dispenser pump, spray-type container, squeeze bottle, or spatula from
   which all fluids, creams, and lotions shall be dispensed.

   3718.17. In addition to the equipment requirements in §3718.16 of this
   chapter, a Beauty school, approved by the District of Columbia Educational
   Licensure Commission or the Board, that offers beauty services normally
   performed by an esthetician shall comply with the following sanitation
   requirements;
   
   
   
   (a)	Creams, lotions, powders, and other cosmetics shall be removed from the
   patron using disposable absorbent cotton, cleansing tissue, cotton swab,
   freshly laundered towels, pledget, or other similar material;
   
   
   
   (b)	Lip and eyebrow pencils shall be sharpened then wiped with alcohol after
   each use;
   
   
   
   (c)	Lip color, eye color, shadows, or other cosmetics shall be removed from
   the original container with a clean spatula and applied to the patron with a
   clean disposable or sanitized applicator or removed from container with a
   disposable applicator;
   
   
   
   (d)	Disposable lip, makeup, eyelash, or other cosmetic application shall be
   discarded immediately after use;
   
   
   
   (e)	Hair removal waxes may not be used for more than one client. Any excess
   wax left after client service shall be discarded immediately;
   
   
   
   (f)	Disposable blood lancets shall be discarded immediately after use and
   placed into a sharps container;
   
   
   
   (g)	Bleach solution or seventy percent (70%) alcohol shall be kept on the
   esthetician tray for contact disinfecting of non-disposable implements that
   may come into contact with blood and non-disposable implements shall be
   sterilized with dry heat, autoclave, or chemically;
   
   
   
   (h)	Nondisposable drapings shall be laundered after each client;
   
   
   
   (i)	All fluids, creams and lotions shall be dispensed with a dispenser pump,
   spray- type container, squeeze bottle, or spatula;
   
   
   
   (j)	Estheticians should use disposable gloves for extractions of inflammatory
   lesions.

   3718.18. In addition to the equipment requirements in §§3718.14 and 3718.15
   of this chapter, a beauty school approved by the District of Columbia
   Educational Licensure Commission or the Board that offers beauty services
   normally performed by a manicurist shall comply with the following sanitation
   requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Finger bowls and foot bath basins shall be cleansed in soap and water and
   properly disinfected between patrons;
   
   
   
   (b)	Oils used in the manicuring process shall be poured into a disinfected
   container or pumped into a disinfected hand. Any remaining excess oil shall be
   immediately discarded;
   
   
   
   (c)	Methyl Methacrylate (MMA);
   
   
   
   (1)	A person may not use or possess methyl methacrylate liquid monomer (MMA)
   in a salon of any type in the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   (2)	To determine whether a person is in violation of subsection (c)(1) of this
   section, an inspector may chemically test products or take samples of products
   at random or when the inspector suspects that a product is illegal.
   
   
   
   (3)	A person who violates this section may be subject to fines and/or other
   discipline pursuant to this chapter.
   
   
   
   (d)	The manicure table top shall be maintained in a sanitary condition at all
   times;
   
   
   
   (e)	A clean towel or disposable paper cover shall be placed over the manicure
   cushion and footrest and changed between clients;
   
   
   
   (f)	Each emery board shall be discarded after use unless it can be cleansed
   and disinfected;
   
   
   
   (g)	All nondisposable implements shall be cleansed and then disinfected before
   reuse;
   
   
   
   (h)	Instruments used on an individual client shall be placed in a jar
   sanitizer containing cotton saturated with seventy percent (70%) alcohol or
   bleach during the manicure process to keep the instruments in a sanitary
   condition during the entire manicure procedure;
   
   
   
   (i)	The complete set of manicuring instruments shall be properly cleansed and
   disinfected after use on each patron and stored in a dry sanitizer;
   
   
   
   (j)	The following procedures shall be followed when paraffin wax is used:
   
   
   
   (1)	A paraffin wax treatment shall be performed before, and not after, a
   manicure or pedicure;
   
   
   
   (2)	The patron shall be free of broken skin or any skin disorder before the
   treatment;
   
   
   
   (3)	The patron&#8217;s hands or feet shall be disinfected before being dipped
   into a paraffin wax; and
   
   
   
   (4)	The paraffin wax shall be kept sanitary and free of any debris.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 7699 (September 12, 2003).
