                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 17-3799)

3799.1. When used in this chapter, each of the following terms shall have the
   meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Applicant &#8211; Any individual seeking licensure by the Board that has
   submitted on official application and paid the applicable fees(s).
   
   
   
   Apprentice &#8211; any person that learns barbering or cosmetology by taking
   classroom courses and working at a salon or shop to gain sufficient training
   and experience to become eligible to sit for the Board&#8217;s barber or
   cosmetology license examination.
   
   
   
   Barber &#8211; any person who is licensed to engage in any of the practices
   encompassed in barbering, especially hair and scalp care.
   
   
   
   Barbering &#8211; any one of any combination of the following practices when
   done upon the head and neck for cosmetic purposes only, and when done for
   payment either directly or indirectly, or without payment for the public
   generally constitutes the practice of barbering within the meaning of this
   chapter. Barbering includes; shaving and/or trimming the beard, cutting the
   hair of any person of either sex for compensation or other consideration,
   received by the person performing the service, as well as giving facial and
   scalp massage or treatments with oils creams, lotions, or other preparations
   either by hand or mechanical appliances; singeing, shampooing, or applying
   tonics to the hair; or applying cosmetic preparations, antiseptics, powders,
   oils, clays, or lotions, to the scalp, face, or neck. Barbering shall not
   include manicuring, electrology, braiding, or weaving of hair.
   
   
   
   Barber pole &#8211; a pole or cylinder with alternating stripes of any
   combination including but not limited to red and white or red white and blue
   which run diagonally along the length of the cylinder or pole; or any
   depiction, rendering, or other representation of a &#8220;barber pole&#8221;
   that appears in any form, which would create the impression to members of the
   general public that a business located near the object is a barbershop.
   
   
   
   Barber School &#8211; any facility licensed to teach the art of barbering.
   
   
   
   Barbershop &#8211; any building or portion of a building, vehicle, and station
   in which any person is engaged in the practice of barbering. For the purposes
   of this chapter, this term includes barber schools.
   
   
   
   Beauty School &#8211; any facility licensed to teach the art of barbering or
   cosmetology.
   
   
   
   Board &#8211; the Board of Barber and Cosmetology
   
   
   
   Braider &#8211; any licensed person who engages in the practice of forming
   human and synthetic hair into braids or other natural hairstyles without using
   chemicals.
   
   
   
   Cosmetologist – a licensed person, whether as an owner, manager, operator,
   instructor, demonstrator, manicurist, or student, who engages in hair styling
   or the cosmetic arts, such as hair styling and skin care, and any other
   practice of cosmetology, including the practice of esthetics and other
   specialty cosmetology practices regulated by the Board, but does not include
   shaving or trimming the beard or moustache of an individual or engaging in the
   practice of master-level esthetics without obtaining the applicable license.
   
   
   
   Course of study in teaching techniques – a single course that spans one (1)
   semester at the college level and requires students to pass an examination in
   order to receive credit.
   
   
   
   Demonstrator &#8211; A person that conducts sales demonstrations of barbering
   or cosmetology products and/or equipment and who does not charge the public
   for any services rendered or materials used in connection with a
   demonstration.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the District of Columbia, Department of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs or the Director&#8217;s agent.
   
   
   
   Distance learning – Courses in which instruction does not take place in a
   traditional classroom setting, but through other media where instructor and
   student are separated by distance and sometimes by time.
   
   Electrologist &#8211; any licensed person who engages in the practice of
   permanently removing unwanted hair with an electric current or short wave
   alternating current, or a combination thereof.
   
   
   
   Esthetician &#8211; any licensed person who engages in the practice of
   applying creams, lotions, scrubs, polishes, waxes, cosmetics, eyelashes, and
   other beauty treatments directly onto the skin to bring about a temporary
   improvement in appearance, and does not exclude peels and microdermabrasion;
   and who may remove superfluous hair from the face and neck area of any person
   by the use of depilatories, waxing or tweezers, but does not include barbering
   or the branches of cosmetology of cosmetologist, braider, electrologist, or
   manicurist.
   
   
   
   Esthetician operator – a person who engages in the practice of basic
   esthetics for compensation.
   
   
   
   Esthetics instructor – means a licensed master esthetician that has
   completed an approved instructor license curriculum and who meets the
   competency standards of the Board as an instructor of esthetics.
   
   
   
   Immediate Supervision &#8211; supervision in which the supervisor is
   physically present and is either discussing or observing the student&#8217;s
   or applicant&#8217;s practice.
   
   
   
   Instructional hour – An instructional hour is equal to fifty (50) minutes of
   each sixty (60) minute segment and includes time devoted to tests that are
   considered part of the course.
   
   Instructor – any person who is authorized to teach barbering, cosmetology,
   or any specialty cosmetology operator as a profession as provided for in this
   chapter.
   
   
   
   License &#8211; any approval, certificate, registration, permit, statutory
   exemption, or other form of permission to practice an occupation or
   profession, as granted by this board.
   
   
   
   Manager &#8211; any licensed barber, cosmetologist, or specialty cosmetologist
   who has successfully completed an additional 500 hours of training and has
   passed a written examination. A manager may manage a shop or a salon.
   
   
   
   Manicurist &#8211; any licensed person who engages in the practice of applying
   creams, lotions, scrubs, and polishes, and waxes to cosmetically treat the
   hands and feet as well as trimming, shaping, enhancing, and decorating the
   fingernails and toenails.
   
   
   
   Master esthetician manager – an individual who is licensed under this
   chapter to engage in the practice of master-level esthetics and authorized to
   manage an esthetics establishment.
   
   
   
   NABBA – National Association of Barber Boards of America.
   
   NCEA –the National Coalition of Estheticians, Manufacturers/ Distributors
   &#038; Associations.
   
   
   
   NCEA-certified – the professional status awarded to a skin care professional
   that has met the competency standards as set forth by NCEA’s 1200 Hour
   Esthetician Job Task Analysis.
   
   
   
   NIC – National-Interstate Council of State Boards of Cosmetology, Inc.
   
   Noncosmetic purposes – medically necessary.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; any individual, natural person, firm, corporation, association,
   or partnership, company, organization, or society.
   
   
   
   Practical Training &#8211; the actual performance by a qualified student of a
   complete service on another person or mannequin.
   
   
   
   Practice of basic esthetics – any one of the following skin care procedures
   done on the head, torso, face, neck, arms, hands, legs, feet, eyebrows, or
   eyelashes for cosmetic purposes and not for the treatment of medical,
   physical, or mental ailments:
   
   (a)	Cleansing, stimulating, manipulating, exercising, applying oils,
   antiseptics, clays, or masks, manual extraction, including a comodone
   extractor, depilatories, waxes, and tweezing;
   
   (b)	Chemical exfoliation;
   
   (c)	Removing superfluous hair by means other than electrolysis, laser
   procedures, or intense pulsed light; or
   
   (d)	Other esthetic preparations or procedures with the use of the hands, a
   high-frequency or galvanic electrical apparatus, or a heat lamp for cosmetic
   purposes and not for the treatment of medical, physical, or mental ailments.
   
   
   
   Practice of master-level esthetics –:
   
   (a) 	Any of the following when done for cosmetic purposes on the head, face,
   neck, torso, abdomen, back, arms, hands, legs, feet, eyebrows, or eyelashes
   and not for the treatment of medical, physical, or mental ailments:
   
   (1)	Body wraps;
   
   (2)	Hydrotherapy;
   
   (3)	Chemical exfoliation;
   
   (4)	Sanding, including microdermabrasion;
   
   (5)	Advanced extraction with lancet; or
   
   (6)	Other esthetic preparations or procedures with the use of:
   
   (A)	The hands; or
   
   (B)	A mechanical or electrical apparatus which is approved by the Board for
   beautifying or similar work performed on the body for cosmetic purposes and
   not for the treatment of a medical, physical, or mental ailment; and
   
   (C)	Lymphatic massage by manual or other means.
   
   (b)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, a master-level esthetician may perform
   procedures listed in subparagraph (a) for non-cosmetic purposes if the
   procedures are performed under the supervision of a licensed health care
   practitioner acting within the scope of his or her license.
   
   (c)	The term “practice of master-level esthetics” includes the practice of
   basic esthetics.
   
   
   
   Premises &#8211; a rest room, waiting room, hall, lounge, storage room or
   area, fence, shed, garage, or other accessory building appurtenant to a salon
   and its surrounding area, where barbering, braiding, manicuring, electrolysis,
   esthetics, or cosmetology is practiced and which is under the control of the
   licensee or used by the licensee directly or indirectly in connection with the
   shop or salon.
   
   
   
   Salon – a place, facility, shop, or establishment in which cosmetology,
   barbering, esthetics, electrology, manicuring, or braiding is practiced.
   
   
   
   Shampooer &#8211; a person that exclusively washes, rinses, and shampoos hair.
   
   
   
   Spa Treatments &#8211; services performed outside of the scope of licensure
   under this chapter that may require separate business or professional
   licensure under existing D.C. Official Code sections and other Titles of the
   District of Columbia Municipal Regulations. Such services include but are not
   limited to therapeutic massage; sports massage; aerobics; water based
   relaxation therapies conducted in a basin, tub or pool; mineral baths; hot
   springs; steam rooms; and physical therapy.
   
   
   
   Substantially Full-Time &#8211; at least thirty (30) hours per week.
   
   
   
   Supervisor &#8211; a licensed barber manager or instructor, cosmetology
   manager or instructor, or specialty cosmetology manager or instructor.
   
   
   
   Technical Instruction &#8211; the instruction of students by demonstration,
   lecture, classroom participation, or examination.
   
   
   
   Water Closet &#8211; a room with a sink and a toilet.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 7699 (September 12, 2003); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 7559 (July 11, 2008); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 512, 518 (January 8, 2010); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 8385, 8359
   (September 30, 2011).
