                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUIREMENTS OF SCHOOLS TEACHING BARBERING, COSMETOLOGY AND SPECIALTY
COSMETOLOGY (ยง 17-3722)

3722.1. A Barber, Cosmetology, or Specialty Cosmetology school approved by the
   District of Columbia Educational Licensure Commission or the Board shall
   comply with the sanitation provisions of these regulations.

   3722.2. Every school shall be well lighted, heated, and ventilated, and shall
   be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.

   3722.3. The walls, curtains, and floor coverings in a school shall be washed
   and kept clean.

   3722.4. All schools shall be supplied with hot and cold running water.

   3722.5. The premises shall be kept free from rodents, vermin, flies, or other
   disease vectors.

   3722.6. The school may not be used for sleeping or living quarters.

   3722.7. All hair, cotton, or other waste material shall be removed from the
   floor immediately, deposited in a closed container, and removed from the
   premises frequently.

   3722.8. Rest rooms shall be kept in a sanitary condition and have a soap
   dispenser and disposable towels.

   3722.9. All students shall wear clean, washable garments; such as uniforms,
   aprons, jackets, or smocks.

   3722.10. All students shall wash their hands before attending each patron.

   3722.11. Disposable gloves shall be worn if a student has a cut or open wound.

   3722.12. Instruments used in direct contact with a client shall be washed in
   soap and water before being immersed in a disinfectant solution for the
   required length of time as specific in this regulation.

   3722.13. Instruments shall be disinfected in any one of the following
   disinfecting solutions:
   
   
   
   (a)	A commercially-marketed EPA-approved and registered disinfecting agent
   sold for the purpose of disinfecting implements and tools used in the practice
   of beauty culture, provided that all manufacturers&#8217; instructions are
   carefully followed;
   
   
   
   (b)	A solution of one part household bleach to ten parts water for ten (10)
   minutes.
   
   
   
   (c)	A solution of water mixed with either five percent (5%) carbolic acid or
   four percent (4%) formaldehyde for twenty (20) to thirty (30) minutes; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A solution of seventy percent (70%) alcohol for twenty (20) to thirty (30)
   minutes.

   3722.14. Each school shall have at least one wet sanitizer containing a
   disinfectant solution and one closed drawer or cabinet that contains an active
   fumigant.

   3722.15. Cleaned and disinfected implements and equipment shall be stored in a
   dry cabinet or drawer sanitizer that contains an active fumigant or electrical
   sanitizer.

   3722.16. The use of neck dusters, powder puffs, sponges, styptic pencil, and
   lump alum or any other equipment or implement, which cannot be sanitized and
   disinfected, may not be used on more than one client.

   3722.17. Lotions, oils and any other type of liquid shall be poured into a
   disinfected container or disinfected hand. Any excess remaining after
   application shall be discarded immediately and not returned to the original
   container or applied to another client.

   3722.18. Lotions, ointments, creams, and powders shall be kept in clean,
   closed containers. All cosmetic containers shall be re-covered immediately
   after use.

   3722.19. Every headrest and footrest for pedicures shall be covered with a
   clean towel or disposable paper for each client.

   3722.20. A school shall have a closed cabinet in which laundered towels are
   stored and a separate bin or hamper for the disposal of soiled towels. If the
   school does its own laundering, the school shall have both an automatic washer
   and dryer on the premises.

   3722.21. Creams shall be dipped from a container with a clean spatula, and the
   instrument may not come into contact with the patron. Creams may not be
   removed with the fingers.

   3722.22. An instrument that caused a skin abrasion or cut shall be immediately
   cleansed, disinfected, sterilized, and inspected according to bacteriology and
   sterilization standards. If bleeding occurs, a tissue or cotton shall be used
   to blot up the blood. Blood-contaminated materials shall be disposed of
   immediately in a sealed, double plastic bag and all forceps shall be
   sterilized.

   3722.23. A student whose hands come into contact with blood shall wash and
   disinfect them immediately.

   3722.24. Pressing combs shall be kept clean and free of carbon by using a hot
   soda solution or similar cleansing agent. Between clients, pressing combs
   shall be scrubbed with a stiff brush, rinsed, disinfected, and dried.

   3722.25. Curling irons shall be wiped with a clean cloth after use on each
   client. They shall be cleansed in a soap solution containing a portion of
   ammonia or similar cleansing agent and wiped dry each day to keep them clean
   and free from rust, grease, and dirt.

   3722.26. Hot combs and curling irons shall be used in a well ventilated area
   and wiped free of grease and hair with a paper towel or cloth before their
   placement in the heater.

   3722.27. A minimum of eight (8) combs and four (4) brushes shall be available
   for each student.

   3722.28. Protective neck strips or similar coverings shall be used on each
   client.

   3722.29. Shampoo bowls shall be washed after each shampoo and sanitized
   frequently with a disinfectant to ensure cleanliness.

   3722.30. Permanent waving retention rods shall be cleansed and sanitized after
   each use. End papers shall be discarded immediately after use.

   3722.31. Soiled combs, brushes, towels, or other used material shall be
   removed from the tops of workstations immediately after use.

   3722.32. Hair clips, hairpins, bobby pins, or similar implements may not be
   placed in the mouth.

   3722.33. Objects dropped on the floor shall not be used until they are
   cleansed and disinfected.

   3722.34. Each barber, cosmetology, or specialty cosmetology school shall,
   where appropriate, contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Storage space for custodial equipment and supplies;
   
   
   
   (b)	Covered containers lined with disposable plastic bags for the daily
   removal of all waste materials;
   
   
   
   (c)	Supplies of appropriate disinfectant and fungicide;
   
   
   
   (d)	Clean laundered towels, hair capes, and shampoo capes;
   
   
   
   (e)	Neck strips and suitable dispensers;
   
   
   
   (f)	Hair dryers;
   
   
   
   (g)	Hairdressing stands or dresserettes with a shelf and mirror; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Facial or all-purpose chairs or tables.

   3722.35. Each barber, cosmetology, or specialty cosmetology station or booth
   shall have the following equipment, where appropriate:
   
   
   
   (a)	All-purpose barber, cosmetology, facial chair, or table;
   
   
   
   (b)	Covered container for disinfecting tools;
   
   
   
   (c)	Closed cabinet or covered container for clean tools;
   
   
   
   (d)	Shampoo dispenser, if necessary;
   
   
   
   (e)	Waving fluid dispenser, if necessary;
   
   
   
   (f)	Closed container for waste materials;
   
   
   
   (g)	Portable shampoo board where necessary;
   
   
   
   (h)	All-purpose stool;
   
   
   
   (i)	Barber chair with head rest having a changeable cover;
   
   
   
   (j)	One (1) closed container for soiled linen;
   
   
   
   (k)	One (1) closed container for used papers;
   
   
   
   (l)	Automatic lathering device, where necessary;
   
   
   
   (m)	Clean head-rest covers and suitable dispensers;
   
   
   
   (n)	Manicuring stand, either stationary or movable, with a lamp;
   
   
   
   (o)	At least two (2) complete sets of manicuring instruments;
   
   
   
   (p)	One general purpose sink with running hot and cold water for every twelve
   (12) manicure stations;
   
   
   
   (q)	Clean laundered towels and customer capes for each customer; and
   
   
   
   (r)	Dispenser pumps, spray type containers, or spatulas to dispense fluids,
   creams, and lotions.

   3722.36. Each barber, cosmetology, and specialty cosmetology school shall,
   where appropriate, have, at a minimum, the equipment required in this section:
   
   
   
   (a)	There shall be at least one (1) sink with running hot and cold water for
   general salon purposes, and at least one (1) sink with running hot and cold
   water for shampoo purposes;
   
   
   
   (b)	Sufficient electrical equipment and dermal lights for giving instruction
   in electrology, skin care, and electrical facials. Note: Equipment shall not
   be used to stimulate so as to contract, or for the purpose of contracting, the
   muscles of the body or face;
   
   
   
   (c)	Mannequins, with full heads of hair, for each student;
   
   
   
   (d)	Time clocks or timers;
   
   
   
   (e)	One shampoo bowl for every ten (10) clinic stations;
   
   
   
   (f)	One hair dryer for every six (6) clinic stations;
   
   
   
   (g)	One facial chair or table for every five (5) students;
   
   
   
   (h)	One manicure station for every five (5) students;
   
   
   
   (i)	Electrical caps; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Thermal hair straighteners:
   
   
   
   (1)	Non-electric comb;
   
   
   
   (2)	Non-electric curling iron (at least two (2) sizes);
   
   
   
   (3)	Stove for non-electric combs and curling irons; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Electric curling iron.

   3722.37. Schools shall use text and reference books approved by the Board.
   Other teaching materials may be used to supplement the approved text and
   reference books.

   3722.38. Schools shall provide the following materials to each student;
   
   
   
   (a)	At least one (1) of the textbooks approved by the Board;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any two (2) approved texts other than the text provided to the students;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Performance Criteria developed by the Board;
   
   
   
   (d)	A copy of 17 DCMR Chapter 37;
   
   
   
   (e)	A list of text and reference books approved by the Board; and
   
   
   
   (f)	A supply kit that includes the necessary tools to perform the practical
   lessons.

   3722.39. Student Practice Limitations include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A student shall not be permitted to work upon a paying patron until he or
   she has completed the freshman period of training and instructions. The
   freshman period shall be ten (10) percent of the total training hours
   specified for each course.
   
   
   
   (b)	A student shall not be permitted to work upon a paying patron until the
   student has completed all of the required technical instruction and practical
   training in the specific service or specialty involved.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 7699 (September 12, 2003).
