                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTINUING EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSEES (§ 17-3730)

3730.1 	This section shall apply to all applicants for the renewal or
reinstatement of a barber, cosmetology, or specialty cosmetology license,
including Manager and Instructor licenses, except those applicants seeking first
renewal of a license.

3730.2 	A continuing education credit shall be valid only if it is part of a
program or activity approved by the Board in accordance with § 3731. Licensees
are responsible for ensuring that continuing education courses taken to satisfy
the Board’s renewal or reinstatement requirements are Board certified or
approved.

3730.3 	An applicant for renewal of a license shall submit to the Board proof of
having completed at least six (6) hours of credit in approved continuing
education programs during the term of the license. Two (2) of these hours shall
be in health, safety, and welfare subjects. Four (4) of these hours shall
consist of general elective courses, as approved by the Board.

3730.4 	Licensees who also hold equivalent licenses in another jurisdiction may,
at the Board’s discretion, substitute continuing education credits completed
in the other jurisdiction for the general elective continuing education
requirements under this section if the licensee earned the continuing education
credits during the two (2) year period proceeding the date that the licensee’s
District license expires.

3730.5 	The Board may approve educational offerings that include, but are not
limited to, the following topics:

(a) 	Courses related to the practice of barbering, cosmetology, and specialty
cosmetology;

(b) 	District laws and regulations;

(c) 	Ethics and standards of professional practice;

(d) 	Occupational health and safety;

(e) 	HIV/AIDS and communicable and infectious disease control;

(f) 	Product knowledge;

(g) 	Business;

(h) 	Management (Managers only); and





Education or Instruction (Instructors only).

3730.6 	Upon request by the Board, an applicant shall prove completion of
required continuing education credits by submitting a certification of
completion that includes the following:

(a) 	The name and address of the sponsor of the program;

(b) 	The name of the program, its location, a description of the subject matter
covered, and the names of the instructors;

(c) 	The dates on which the applicant attended the program;

(d) 	The hours of credit claimed; and

(e) 	A verification of completion with the signature and seal of the sponsor.

3730.7 	An applicant for reinstatement of an expired license or for
reinstatement of a suspended or revoked license shall submit proof pursuant to
§ 3730.3 of having completed all continuing education credits that the
applicant would have been required to take per licensing cycle if the
applicant’s license had not expired or had not been suspended or revoked.

3730.8 	An applicant for the renewal of a license who fails to submit proof of
having completed the continuing education requirements by or before the
expiration date may renew the license within sixty (60) days after expiration by
submitting proof pursuant to § 3730.6 and by paying the required late fee. Upon
renewal, the Board shall deem the applicant to have possessed a valid license
during the period between the expiration of the license and its renewal.

3730.9 	If an applicant for the renewal of a license fails to submit proof of
completion of continuing education requirements within sixty (60) days after the
expiration of the applicant’s license, the license shall be deemed to have
lapsed on the date of expiration, and the applicant shall be required to apply
for reinstatement of the expired license pursuant to § 3308 of this chapter.

3730.10 	The Board may grant an extension of the sixty (60) day period to renew
after expiration if the applicant’s failure to submit proof of completion was
for good cause. For purposes of this subsection, “good cause” includes proof
of the following:

(a) 	Serious and protracted illness of the applicant who submits a doctor’s
statement verifying the illness;

(b) 	The death or serious and protracted illness of a member of the
applicant’s immediate family, which death or illness resulted in the
applicant’s inability to complete the continuing education requirements within
the specified time. For the purposes of this subsection, the term “immediate
family” means the applicant’s spouse and any parent, brother, sister, or
child of the applicant and the spouse of any such parent, brother, sister, or
child;

(c) 	The applicant, due to age (seventy (70) years of age or older), is unable
to complete the requirements within the specified time; or

(d) 	Active military service.





		Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 8353 (September 30,
2011).
