                                  DC REGULATIONS

BARBERSHOPS AND COSMETOLOGY SALONS (ยง 17-3716)

3716.1. No person shall operate a salon or shop anywhere in the District
   without first having obtained the appropriate Business licenses,
   registrations, and/or certificates.

   3716.2. No Public Health: Public Accommodations endorsement to operate a salon
   or shop in the District shall be issued until the Director of the Department
   of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs has done the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Determined that the applicant has complied with all applicable laws and
   regulations enforced by the Department;
   
   
   
   (b)	Verified that the proper barber, cosmetology, or specialty cosmetology
   professional license required by this chapter has been issued; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Determined that the applicant has paid the applicable fees as established
   by the Director and has been issued the appropriate Certificate of Occupancy.

   3716.3. Each salon or shop owner shall apply for and obtain from the Board a
   salon or shop license that shall be issued without examination.

   3716.4. Any owner who intends to manage a salon or shop shall obtain both a
   salon license and a manager&#8217;s license.

   3716.5. A license shall be obtained for each place of business and the
   appropriate fee shall be paid for each license.

   3716.6. Each salon or shop owner shall frame the salon or shop license under
   clear glass or plastic and shall post the license in the salon or shop in
   plain view of the public.

   3716.7. Each salon or shop shall have one licensed manager on duty at all
   times during operating hours. In emergencies, where a manager cannot be
   present, the owner may designate a licensed operator as a temporary manager
   for up to 48 hours. The owner must notify the Board in writing immediately if
   a licensed operator has been designated as a temporary manager. If the owner
   cannot have a licensed manager on duty after 48-hours the owner shall petition
   the Board for an extension. The petition for extension shall be submitted in
   writing via facsimile and regular mail or personal delivery. Extensions are
   granted at the Board&#8217;s discretion and may be revoked by the Board at any
   time.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 7699 (September 12, 2003).
