                                  DC REGULATIONS

ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES (§ 17-3727)

3727.1. The Director of the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, the
   Fire Chief, the Department of Health, the Chief of Police, and the Board of
   Barber and Cosmetology shall inspect or otherwise investigate every licensed
   salon or shop and any building or part of a building for which a salon or shop
   application has been filed with the District as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Director of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs shall determine conformity
   with the applicable provisions of laws and regulations enforced by the
   Department;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Fire Chief shall require that the building or part of the building
   shall comply with the applicable provisions of the laws and regulations
   relating to fire prevention and control;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Director of the Department of Health shall require that the premises
   comply with the applicable provisions of other laws and regulations relating
   to public health;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Chief of Police shall require that the licensees comply with the
   applicable provisions of the laws and regulations enforced by the Metropolitan
   Police Department; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The Board of Barber and Cosmetology shall determine conformity with the
   applicable provisions of laws and regulations relating to the practices of
   barbering and cosmetology.

   3727.2. The applicant or licensee shall take appropriate action to ensure
   access to all parts of the premises for the purpose of facilitating
   inspection.

   3727.3. Failure to allow and facilitate inspections by applicants or licensees
   shall be cause for withholding issuance of a new license, or the revocation or
   suspension of an existing license.

   3727.4. Each license issued under the authority of this chapter shall be
   subject to revocation, suspension, or cancellation for failure by the licensee
   to comply with these regulations or;
   
   
   
   (a)	For gross malpractice;
   
   
   
   (b)	For practicing while under the influence of alcohol and/or while under the
   influence of any controlled substance or dangerous drug as defined in the
   Uniform Controlled Substances Act of 1981, effective August 5, 1981 (D.C. Law
   4-29; D.C. Official Code § 48-901 et. seq.) (2001) without a prescription;
   
   
   
   (c)	For obtaining a license by fraud or misrepresentation;
   
   
   
   (d)	If the licensee is disciplined by a disciplinary authority in another
   jurisdiction or is convicted or disciplined by a court in any jurisdiction for
   conduct that would be grounds for disciplinary action under this section;
   
   
   
   (e)	Willfully misrepresents what services he or she may perform or tries to
   perform services beyond the scope authorized by the license;
   
   
   
   (f)	Aids in the unauthorized practice of barbering or cosmetology;
   
   
   
   (g)	Fails to pay civil fines imposed under this chapter;
   
   
   
   (h)	Refuses to provide service for which he or she is licensed to any person
   for reasons prohibited by the Human Rights Act of 1977, effective December 13,
   1977 (D.C. Law 2-38; D.C. Official Code 2-1401.01 et seq.) (2001), as amended,
   or any other District of Columbia or United States Federal Government
   anti-discrimination rule, regulation or Act; or
   
   
   
   (i)	Fails to pay the applicable license fees.

   3727.5. Any person who fails to comply with any provision of this chapter,
   violates a valid order of the Board, or violates a consent decree entered into
   with the Board shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed
   five thousand dollars ($5000) or by imprisonment not to exceed ninety (90)
   days, for each failure to comply.

   3727.6. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Director and Board from, in
   any circumstance, pursuing additional penalties as allowed under D.C. Official
   Code § 47-2853.17 (2001) or under Title 22 of the District of Columbia
   Official Code, if applicable.

   3727.7. In the event of any failure to comply with the provisions of this
   chapter, each day of the failure shall constitute a separate offense, and the
   penalties prescribed in §3727.3 and §3727.5 shall be applicable to each
   separate offense.

   3727.8. The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or the failure
   to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter shall be cause for the
   institution of proceedings as provided for in chapter one of these
   regulations.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 7699 (September 12, 2003).
