                                  DC REGULATIONS

BARBER AND COSMETOLOGY APPRENTICESHIPS (ยง 17-3704)

3704.1. Experience gained through a barber and cosmetology apprenticeship
   completed in barbershops or cosmetology salons shall satisfy the training and
   experience requirement for purposes of ยง3703.1 if:
   
   
   
   (a)	The apprentice completes classroom training as shown in ยง3704.5 and
   completes a minimum of two thousand (2000) hours of apprenticeship work
   experience;
   
   
   
   (b)	The apprenticeship work experience component is at least twenty (20) hours
   per week and work experience is not less than one (1) year but lasts no longer
   than two (2) years from the date of registration;
   
   
   
   (c)	Working as a &#8220;shampooer&#8221;, by whatever name known, shall not be
   credited towards the work experience component of the apprenticeship;
   
   
   
   (d)	The apprenticeship classroom training curriculum has been approved by the
   Board;
   
   
   
   (e)	The apprentice is at least eighteen (18) years of age;
   
   
   
   (f)	The apprenticeship program complies with the requirements of The Office of
   Apprenticeship Information and Training as set forth in 7 DCMR Chapter 11
   (Apprenticeship); and
   
   
   
   (g)	Any information provided to the Office of Apprenticeship Information and
   Training by the apprentice and instructor must be provided to the Board of
   Barber and Cosmetology.

   3704.2. A barber or cosmetology apprenticeship may fulfill only the training
   and experience requirement of these regulations. Upon completion of the
   apprenticeship, the apprentice shall sit for examination within six months or
   lose credit for all training and experience gained in the apprenticeship.

   3704.3. An individual shall be registered by the Board before the individual
   may serve as an apprentice in a beauty salon or barbershop in the District.

   3704.4. While registration as an apprentice is in effect, the registration
   authorizes the individual to learn to practice barbering or cosmetology:
   
   
   
   (a)	In a cosmetology salon that holds a salon owner&#8217;s license or a
   barbershop that holds a barbershop owner&#8217;s license; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Under the supervision of;
   
   
   
   (1)	If learning the practice of cosmetology, a licensed cosmetology
   instructor;
   
   
   
   (2)	If learning the practice of barbering, a licensed barber instructor;
   
   
   
   (c)	A licensed instructor may train one apprentice at a time, but the minimum
   numerical ratio required shall be one (1) apprentice to every three (3)
   operators employed.
   
   
   
   (d)	Instructors that rent space pursuant to ยง3720 are not permitted to have
   apprentices and do not count towards instructor requirements of this
   section.3704.5	All classroom theory training must be completed before
   beginning the work experience part of the apprenticeship. The classroom
   training must occur in a Board approved school or continuing education course
   and shall consist of the following:

   3704.5. All classroom theory training must be completed before beginning the
   work experience part of the apprenticeship. The classroom training must occur
   in a Board approved school or continuing education course and shall consist of
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	500 classroom theory hours for Barbers consisting of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (1)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Shampooing
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   15
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (2)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Scalp Treatments
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   10
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (3)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Chemical Straightening
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   150
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (4)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Personal Hygiene
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   50
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (5)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Ethics, Salesmanship
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   25
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (6)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Courtesy, Conduct, D.C. Law
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   50
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (7)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Anatomy, Physiology, Bacteriology, Pathology, Chemistry, Electricity
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   150
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (8)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Sanitation
