                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS (§ 17-3731)

3731.1 	The Board, in its discretion, may approve continuing education programs
that contribute to the growth in professional competence of a barber,
cosmetologist, or specialty cosmetologist, and that meet the other requirements
of this section.

3731.2 	Unless the school or organization offering the program or course is
exempt from the accreditation requirements of the Educational Licensure
Commission, the school or organization shall obtain certification or licensure
from the Educational Licensure Commission.

3731.3 	Schools or organizations accredited by the Educational Licensure
Commission that offer continuing education programs or courses shall be
considered certified for the purposes of this section.





The Board may approve the following types of continuing education programs, if
the programs meet the requirements of § 3731.7:

(a) 	A seminar or workshop;

(b) 	An educational program given at a conference, institute, academy, or trade
show;

(c) 	An undergraduate or graduate course given at a college or university,
including community or junior colleges; or

(d) 	A distance learning course that has been approved by the Board pursuant to
§ 3731.8.

3731.5 	A sponsor of a continuing education program shall submit a completed
application to the Board at least ninety (90) days prior to the date of the
presentation of each program for which the sponsor seeks approval.

3731.6 	A sponsor of a continuing education program shall have the burden of
verifying whether the Board, pursuant to this section, has approved a program
prior to advertising the program as approved by the Board.

3731.7 	In order to be approved by the Board for continuing education credit, a
program shall meet the following requirements:

(a) 	The program shall contribute to the professional competence of
participants;

(b) 	The program shall be directly related to increasing the participants’
knowledge and skills in the practice of barbering, cosmetology, or specialty
cosmetology;

(c) 	The stated program objectives shall specify the level of knowledge the
participant should have attained, or the level of competency the participant
should be able to demonstrate, upon completing the program;

(d) 	The program shall be developed by persons qualified in the subject matter
and in instructional design;

(e) 	The program shall be instructed by an individual approved by the Board;

(f) 	The program content shall be current in its subject matter;

(g) 	All providers shall have a system of written evaluation by students in
which the program and the instructor are evaluated at the end of each offering.
The evaluation form shall accompany the application. Providers shall keep the
completed evaluation forms on each program and instructor for four (4) years
from the end of the offering; and

(h) 	The sponsor shall agree to allow the Board to conduct an audit of the
written student evaluations at any time within four (4) years of the time that a
given program was offered.

3731.8 	Distance learning courses may be approved as follows:

(a) 	Distance learning courses may be certified by the Board if they provide the
Board with appropriate documentation that National Association of Barber Boards
of America (NABBA), National Coalition of Estheticians, Manufacturers/
Distributors &#038; Associations (NCEA), or National-Interstate Council of State
Boards of Cosmetology, Inc. (NIC) certification is in effect, that the distance
learning course meets the content requirements of § 3731.7, and that the course
meets the following additional requirements of the Board:

(1) 	Distance learning courses shall not include pre-licensing education
courses;

(2) 	Distance learning courses shall only include elective continuing education
courses;

(3) 	Distance learning courses shall be a mastery-based format defined as
follows:

(A) 	Having at least one (1) objective;

(B) 	Having a method for measuring student progress;

(C) 	Having delivery formats that are interactive, which may include computer
based instruction via CD-ROM or the Internet; and

(D) 	Having a delivery format that does not deliver course material in a
passive, text only format consisting primarily of questions similar to those
found on the licensing examination;

(4) 	Distance learning courses shall be equivalent to in-class continuous
instruction and attendance formats;

(b) 	Approval under this section shall be revoked immediately in writing should
certification by NABBA, NCEA, or NIC be discontinued for any reason;

(c) 	The distance-learning provider shall inform the Board immediately if
certification by NABBA, NCEA, or NIC is discontinued for any reason; and

(d) 	A student shall complete the distance learning course within three (3)
months of the date of enrollment in the course.

3731.9 	The Board may approve programs with a minimum of one (1) instructional
hour.

3731.10 	Any significant changes in program content or program instructor shall
be submitted to the Board in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to the
change for Board approval.

3731.11 	Approval of a program or course by the Board shall continue until the
end of the two (2) year licensing period during which approval is given.

3731.12 	A program sponsor shall issue a certificate of successful completion to
a licensee who completes the program. A program sponsor shall not issue a
certificate to a licensee who fails to complete the entire program.

3731.13 	Within ten (10) days after the completion of the continuing education
program, the program sponsor shall forward to the Board a list of all
participants, which shall include each participant’s license number, name, and
address.

3731.14 	A program sponsor shall retain records of the following information:

(a) 	The outline of the program;

(b) 	The program date(s);

(c) 	The program location(s);

(d) 	The instructor(s); and

(e) 	The number of instructional hours.

3731.15 	A program sponsor shall retain a copy of the information required by §
3731.12 and 3731.13 for a period of at least five (5) years of the time that a
given program was offered.

3731.16 	A sponsor of a program that has been approved by the Board for one (1)
license period shall reapply for approval at least ninety (90) days prior to the
beginning of the next license renewal period.

3731.17 	A sponsor of a continuing education program that has been approved by
the Board may apply for renewal of that program by submitting a renewal
application and, in alternate renewal cycles, providing an updated syllabus
outlining the course content.

3731.18 	Sponsors or schools offering continuing education programs shall notify
the Board in writing within thirty (30) days, if certification by NABBA, NCEA,
or NIC ceases.





		Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 8353, 8355 (September
30, 2011).
