                                  DC REGULATIONS

CODE OF ETHICS AND STANDARDS OF PRACTICE (ยง 17-3701)

3701.1. This section shall be known as the Code of Ethics and Standards of
   Practice for all barbers, cosmetologists, and specialty cosmetologists.

   3701.2. The barber, cosmetologist, or specialty cosmetologist shall accept
   responsibility for providing competent service with compassion and respect for
   human dignity.

   3701.3. The barber, cosmetologist, or specialty cosmetologist shall exercise
   professional judgment in the use of evaluation and treatment procedures and
   may decline to perform a treatment if he or she believes the treatment would
   be harmful or unjustified.

   3701.4. The barber, cosmetologist, or specialty cosmetologist shall provide
   the patron with accurate information regarding the profession and treatments
   rendered.

   3701.5. The barber, cosmetologist, or specialty cosmetologist shall deal
   honestly with patrons and colleagues, and strive to report to the Board those
   persons who are deficient in character or competence, or who engage in fraud
   or deception.

   3701.6. A barber, cosmetologist, or specialty cosmetologist shall continue to
   study, apply and advance scientific knowledge, make relevant information
   available to patrons, colleagues, and the public, obtain consultations, and
   use the talents of health professionals when required.

   3701.7. A barber, cosmetologist, or specialty cosmetologist shall respect the
   law and also recognize a responsibility to seek changes in those requirements
   which are contrary to the best interests of the patron and the profession.

   3701.8. A barber, cosmetologist, or specialty cosmetologist authorized to
   practice pursuant to the Act, shall not accept or perform professional
   services covered by the Act which the licensee knows or has reason to know he
   or she is not competent to perform.

   3701.9. No licensee may provide services to the public if the licensee has a
   known infectious or contagious disease unless the licensee takes appropriate
   precautions and uses safeguards that prevent the spread of the disease to the
   public.

   3701.10. Licensees shall take adequate and necessary precautions to protect
   the public from health and safety hazards when performing services.

   3701.11. The barber or cosmetologist shall respect the client&#8217;s right to
   privacy and shall not divulge confidential information without consent of the
   client or guardian unless required by law.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 7699 (September 12, 2003).
