                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXAMINATION (ยง 17-3707)

3707.1. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, an applicant shall pass
   an examination approved by the Board.

   3707.2. Upon appearance for the examination, and before being allowed to sit
   for any examination required for licensure under this chapter, applicants must
   present a valid proof of identity.

   3707.3. Valid proof of identity shall be defined as; a non-expired District,
   State or Federal government issued photo-identification card, such as a
   driver&#8217;s license, passport (issued within the past ten years), or
   non-driver&#8217;s photo identification card.

   3707.4. The Board or its appointee shall compare the photo present on the
   photo identification card to that which was provided by the applicant along
   with the applicant&#8217;s application.

   3707.5. Applicants that are not United States citizens are required to present
   a non-expired visa, passport from the country of citizenship, or United States
   of America Federal Government issued green card or other permanent residency
   document. Any document presented by the applicant originating from a foreign
   government must have been issued within the past eight years. Unless the Board
   allows otherwise, any document presented by a foreign applicant for the
   purposes of this section must include a photograph embedded within the
   document.

   3707.6. International Driver&#8217;s Licenses, employment identification cards
   (including those issued by government agencies), or other types of photo
   identification not specifically allowed by the Board are not considered valid
   proof of identity.

   3707.7. The Board shall have the authority to deny entry into the examination
   to any applicant if there is a reasonable suspicion that the identification is
   invalid or that the person represented in the application photo and photo
   identification card referred to in ยง3707.3 are not the same. Failure to
   provide a valid proof of identity shall be grounds for disqualification from
   the examination.

   3707.8. If the Board, at any time, determines that an applicant engaged the
   services of another person to take any part of an examination required under
   this chapter, the applicant shall be considered unfit to practice and shall
   not receive a license or, if the license has already been issued, shall have
   the license summarily suspended immediately. The Board shall proceed with
   further action consistent with the enforcement provisions of this chapter.

   3707.9. Applicants or licensees found to have violated the provisions of this
   subsection are barred from reapplying for a license under this chapter for one
   year from the date of the Board&#8217;s revocation or denial unless otherwise
   provided in the order. A permanent record shall be kept of the Board&#8217;s
   decision and copies of the disciplinary action may be forwarded to all
   licensing authorities that offer reciprocity or endorsement to those
   professionals licensed in the District under this chapter. The Board shall
   conduct its hearing under this subsection independently from any criminal
   prosecution that may occur and the result of this hearing shall not be
   dependent upon the result of any criminal prosecution.

   3707.10. It shall be the policy of this Board to refer all potential identity
   fraud incidents described in this section to the Metropolitan Police
   Department and Federal authorities for criminal investigation and prosecution.

   3707.11. All student applicants shall take the exam within two years of
   graduation from, or completion of, an approved program at an approved school.
   Apprentices shall take the exam within six months of completing the
   apprenticeship program.

   3707.12. All applicants whose first language is not English shall submit
   evidence satisfactory to the Board of the applicant&#8217;s competency in the
   English language.

   3707.13. Examinations shall be held in the District at least four (4) times
   per year.

   3707.14. The examination may consist of a written, practical, oral, or
   computerized examination, as the Board considers appropriate.

   3707.15. A passing score on the written and practical examination is required.
   
   
   
   (a)	To qualify for licensure, an applicant shall obtain a passing score of:
   
   
   
   (1)	Seventy percent (70%) for a cosmetology operator, specialty cosmetology
   operator, or barber; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Seventy-five percent (75%) for all manager or instructor licenses.

   3707.16. An applicant, who fails any part of the practical exam, in order to
   be eligible for a license, shall be re-examined in the part(s) failed within
   one year after notice of the failed examination results. The applicant shall,
   for each of the next five (5) consecutive regular examinations offered by the
   Board, retain credit for those parts of the examination passed and for any
   additional subject or subjects passed at the five (5) consecutive regular
   examinations.

   3707.17. If an applicant who has passed part of the practical examination does
   not apply to the Board for re-examination and is not re-examined in the
   part(s) failed at each of the five (5) consecutive regular examinations
   offered by the Board, the applicant shall forfeit all credits for those
   part(s) that the applicant passed and shall subsequently be re-examined as
   though the applicant were an applicant applying for the first time.

   3707.18. An applicant who receives a failing grade on an examination, or on
   one or more parts of a multi-part examination, or fails to appear for a
   scheduled examination shall file a new application and pay a new fee.
   Examination fees are nonrefundable.

   3707.19. The Director shall not reinstate the license, certification, or
   registration of a person who fails to apply for reinstatement within five (5)
   years after the license, certification, or registration expires. Such person
   may become licensed, certified, or registered only by meeting the requirements
   for obtaining an initial license, certification, or registration under this
   chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 7699 (September 12, 2003).
