                                  DC REGULATIONS

AMOUNT OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE (§ 14-2503)

2503.1. The amount of financial assistance provided to a very low, low or
   moderate income eligible household shall be based on the sum of Downpayment
   Assistance and Closing Cost Assistance, subject to the limitations provided in
   § 2503.2 of this chapter. Downpayment Assistance shall be determined by DHCD
   based on prevailing trends in the residential real estate market. DHCD shall
   publish Program financial assistance limits, not less than one time each
   fiscal year, which shall remain in effect until a subsequent notice is
   published.
   
   
   
   (a)	Closing Cost Assistance shall be in an amount to be determined by the
   Department and shall be calculated in the same manner for all eligible
   households.
   
   
   
   (1)	The per-client Closing Cost Assistance shall be determined based on the
   availability of funds, but shall not be more than Ten Thousand Dollars ($
   10,000).
   
   
   
   (2)	DHCD shall publish the amount of per-client Closing Cost Assistance not
   less than one time each year, and it shall remain in effect until a subsequent
   notice is published.
   
   
   
   (b)	Downpayment Assistance for eligible very low, low, and moderate income
   applicants shall be in an amount equal to the Desired Purchasing Power less
   the Standard Mortgage Qualification Level for each eligible applicant, subject
   to the Per-Client Downpayment Assistance Cap, and adjusted for household size.
   
   
   
   (1)	The amount of Downpayment Assistance will be inversely related to
   household income so that lower income households will be eligible for greater
   amounts of Downpayment Assistance, and households with higher incomes will be
   eligible for lesser amounts of Downpayment Assistance.
   
   
   
   (2)	DHCD shall publish the Desired Purchasing Power, the Per-Client
   Downpayment Assistance Cap, and the calculated amounts of Downpayment
   Assistance for all very low, low, and moderate income applicants, not less
   than once each fiscal year, and they shall remain in effect until a subsequent
   notice is published.
   
   
   
   (c)	The Director may increase the amount of financial assistance for very low
   income households by an amount up to Five Thousand Dollars ($ 5,000) when the
   following conditions apply:
   
   
   
   (1)	Applicant household demonstrates a need for additional assistance; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Applicant household is elderly, handicapped, disabled, or a displaced
   household.

   2503.2. The amount of financial assistance provided an applicant shall not
   exceed the amount necessary to reduce the household’s monthly payment for
   principal, interest, taxes and insurance, plus monthly condominium fee and
   principal payments required, if any, to an amount determined by application of
   underwriting criteria established and used by the Federal Home Administration
   (FHA) or conventional lending institutions, as such criteria may be amended
   from time-to-time of the monthly gross household income, or in the case of a
   cooperative unit, the monthly household’s Monthly Carrying Charges to an
   amount determined by application of underwriting criteria established and used
   by the Federal Home Administration (FHA) or conventional lending institutions,
   as such criteria may be amended from time-to-time of the monthly gross
   household income, on a Principal-Only Loan under this Program.

   2503.3. Financial assistance may include provision for closing costs;
   provided, that the minimum contribution as provided in § 2501.10 of this
   chapter is met.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 526 (January 30,
   1981); as amended by: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 2775 (May
   9, 1986); Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 4394 (July 10, 1987);
   and Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 1553 (March 14, 1997);
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 436 (January 20, 2006); Notice
   of Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 5250 (June 30, 2006).
