                                  DC REGULATIONS

MUNICIPAL FISH WHARF AND MARKET (§ 24-405)

405.1. This section provides for the control, regulation, and operation of the
   municipal fish wharf and market located at the water frontage on the Potomac
   River lying south of Maine Avenue, between Eleventh and Twelfth Streets, S.W.,
   including the buildings and wharves on that frontage.

   405.2. No person shall drink, transfer possession of, or dispense in any
   manner any alcoholic beverages except within the portions of the market
   building occupied by tenants having a license to sell or dispense these
   beverages.

   405.3. No person shall engage in any disorderly or boisterous conduct, or loaf
   at or on the premises of fish wharf and market, or fish or go in bathing from
   the wharf.

   405.4. No person shall throw paper, rubbish, trash, or refuse of any kind on
   the wharves, walks, roadways, or other market premises, or in the street
   fronting the same.

   405.5. All paper, rubbish, trash, or refuse shall be placed in receptacles and
   removed by tenants to a space set aside for that purpose.

   405.6. Each tenant shall keep his or her place of business in a clean and
   sanitary condition.

   405.7. The Director of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, or the
   Director&#8217;s designee, shall have authority to direct the parking and
   arrangement of all vehicles on the market premises; and all persons in charge
   of vehicles on the market premises shall conform to all directions given by
   the Director.

   405.8. No person shall park any vehicle on the market premises, except while
   transacting legitimate business at the market or wharves.

   405.9. No person shall solicit sales or orders for any commodity being sold
   from any boat or other vessel, except at the wharf at which the boat or vessel
   is docked.

   405.10. No owner, operator, or other person in charge of, or employed in
   connection with, any boat or other water craft shall sell or offer for sale
   from any boat or other water craft anchored at the fish wharf, any fish,
   oysters, or other sea food unless the sea food has been transported to the
   wharf on the boat from which it is sold or offered for sale, or unless it has
   been purchased from a person other than the person who caught it.

   405.11. No person shall sell from any boat anchored at the fish wharf any
   watermelons or other farm products unless the watermelons or other farm
   products have been transported to the wharf for or purchased from the producer
   of the products.

   405.12. No person shall engage in shucking oysters for the public until he or
   she has been given a permit and identification badge by the market master.

   405.13. An oyster shucking permit may be revoked at any time.

   405.14. No person shall ply his or her trade of shucking oysters for the
   public except on the portion of the market premises designated for this
   purpose by the Director.

   405.15. No person shall dock any boat or other water craft at the municipal
   fish wharf and market without a permit issued by the Director; except boats
   carrying cargoes of fish, oysters, or other seafood products, or watermelons
   or other farm products. Issuance of a permit shall be based on a finding that
   the dockage applied for will not interfere with the dockage of boats carrying
   cargoes of fish, oysters, or other seafood products.

   405.16. A non-cargo dockage permit may be issued for not more than four (4)
   consecutive days in any one (1) calendar month; and then only upon the
   condition that, should the dockage space be required by any boat carrying
   cargoes of fish, oysters, or other seafood products, the person to whom the
   permit has been issued shall immediately remove his or her boat from the dock
   upon the request of the Director.

   405.17. The fees for non-cargo dockage permits shall be the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	For boats not more than fifty feet (50 ft.) in length, one dollar ($1) per
   day;
   
   
   
   (b)	For boats fifty-one feet (51 ft.) to one hundred feet (100 ft.) in length,
   two dollars ($2) per day; and
   
   
   
   (c)	For boats over one hundred feet (100 ft.) in length, five dollars ($5) per
   day.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 5, §§3, 4, &#038; 5 of the Police Regulations (May 1981).
