                                  DC REGULATIONS

LIMITATION OF COST OR FUNDS (ยง 27-3243)

3243.1. Upon learning that a partially funded contract will receive no further
   funds, the contracting officer shall promptly give the contractor notice of
   the decision not to provide funds.

   3243.2. Under a cost-reimbursement contract, the contracting officer, upon
   learning that the contractor is approaching the estimated cost of the contract
   or the limit of the budget authority allocated and encumbered, shall promptly
   obtain information about funding and programming pertinent to the continuation
   of the contract and notify the contractor in writing of one (1) of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That additional funding is available or the estimated cost has been
   increased in a specified amount;
   
   
   
   (b)	That the contract will not be further funded, and that the contractor
   shall submit a proposal for an adjustment of fee, if any, based on the
   percentage of work completed in relation to the total work called for under
   the contract;
   
   
   
   (c)	That the contract will be terminated; or
   
   
   
   (d)	That the District is considering whether to allot additional funds or
   increase the estimated cost, that the contractor is entitled by the contract
   terms to stop work when the funding or cost limit is reached, and that any
   work beyond the funding or cost limit will be at the contractor&#8217;s risk.

   3243.3. Under a cost-reimbursement contract, the contracting officer may issue
   a change order, a direction to replace or repair defective items or work, or a
   termination notice without immediately increasing the funds available.

   3243.4. Under a cost-reimbursement contract, because a contractor is not
   obligated to incur costs in excess of the estimated cost in the contract, the
   contracting officer shall ensure availability of funds for directed actions.

   3243.5. Under a cost-reimbursement contract, the contracting officer may
   direct that any increase in the estimated cost or amount allotted to a
   contract be used for the sole purpose of funding termination or other
   specified expenses.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1645 (February 26, 1988).
