                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACT DEBT INTEREST CHARGES AND CREDITS (ยง 27-3236)

3236.1. The contracting officer shall apply interest charges to any contract
   debt unpaid after thirty (30) days from the issuance of a demand, unless
   either of the following applies:
   
   
   
   (a)	The contract specifies another due date or procedure for charging or
   collecting interest; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The contract is excluded under ยง3236.5.

   3236.2. Interest on contract debt shall be made an element of each deferred
   payment agreement. The interest charge shall be at the rate set forth in the
   D.C. Code ยง28-3302(c).

   3236.3. The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of
   calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on whichever of
   the following dates applies:
   
   
   
   (a)	The date on which the designated office received payment from the
   contractor;
   
   
   
   (b)	The date of issuance of a District check to the contractor from which an
   amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract
   debt; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt
   would otherwise have become payable to the contractor.

   3236.4. An equitable interest credit shall be applied under the following
   circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	When the amount of debt initially determined is subsequently reduced;
   
   
   
   (b)	When the collection procedures used result in an over-collection of the
   debt due; or
   
   
   
   (c)	When the contracting officer or other official designated to collect the
   debt determines that the District has unduly delayed payments to the
   contractor on the same contract at some time during the period to which the
   interest charge applied, unless an interest penalty was paid for the late
   payment.

   3236.5. The following categories of contracts may be excluded from interest
   charges:
   
   
   
   (a)	Small purchases;
   
   
   
   (b)	Contracts with a state or local government or instrumentality; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Contracts without any provision for profit or fee with a nonprofit
   organization.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1642 (February 26, 1988).
