                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADVANCE PAYMENTS (§ 27-3205)

3205.1. The contracting officer shall not authorize the use of advance
   payments unless the following criteria are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	There is a need for contract financing;
   
   
   
   (b)	Private financing is unavailable or insufficient;
   
   
   
   (c)	Use of progress payments would be insufficient to meet the
   contractor&#8217;s financing needs;
   
   
   
   (d)	The contractor can give adequate security;
   
   
   
   (e)	The contractor is otherwise qualified as a responsible, certified minority
   business enterprise;
   
   
   
   (f)	The use of advance payments would be in the best interests of the
   District; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The District of Columbia Local Business Opportunity Commission has
   recommended the use of advance payments.
   
   
   
   (h)	Notwithstanding subparagraphs (a) through (g) above, the contracting
   officer may authorize advance payments to a responsible contractor who is a
   provider of Medicaid managed healthcare programs. The contractor may be paid a
   prospective monthly capitation rate for each Medicaid managed care program
   enrollee that is enrolled with the contractor.
   
   
   
   (i)	Notwithstanding subparagraphs (a) through (g) above, the contracting
   officer may authorize advance tuition payments to a responsible contractor who
   is a provider of special education services. The contractor may be paid
   tuition in advance of a school semester or session for each student enrolled
   with the contractor whose tuition has been approved for payment by the
   Chancellor of the District of Columbia Public Schools, or his or her designee;
   
   
   
   (j)	Notwithstanding subparagraphs (a) through (g) above, the contracting
   officer may authorize advance tuition payments to a responsible contractor who
   is a provider of educational services or programs for Metropolitan Police
   Department (“MPD”) employees when such tuition payments are authorized by
   District of Columbia law or regulations. The contractor may be paid in advance
   of a school semester or session for each MPD employee enrolled with the
   contractor whose tuition has been approved for payment by the Chief of the
   MPD, or his or her designee, pursuant to District of Columbia law or
   regulations;
   
   
   
   (k)	Notwithstanding subparagraphs (a) through (g) above, the contracting
   officer may authorize advance payments to a responsible contractor who
   provides court transcripts, depositions, expert witness testimony, or other
   litigation or transactional related legal services to the Attorney General
   upon the Attorney General’s determination that such advance payments are
   necessary and appropriate to enable the Attorney General to properly represent
   the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (l)	Notwithstanding subparagraphs (a) through (g) above, the contracting
   officer may authorize advance payments to a responsible contractor who is a
   provider of training seminars or programs directly related to the duties of
   the applicable agency, office or department employees. The contractor may be
   paid in advance of a training seminar or program for each employee enrolled in
   a training seminar or program whose tuition or fee has been approved in
   writing by the applicable agency, office or department director; and
   
   
   
   (m)	Notwithstanding subparagraphs (a) through (g) above, the contracting
   officer may authorize advance payments to a responsible contractor who is a
   provider of food and/or beverages for the agency, office or department
   employees attending a training seminar or program authorized by the applicable
   agency, office or department director, or his or her designee, and upon a
   determination in writing by the applicable agency, office or department
   director that provision of food and  beverages is necessary and appropriate in
   order for the employees to obtain the full benefit of the  training that is
   directly related to the employees’ duties.
   
   
   
   (n)	Notwithstanding subparagraphs (a) through (g) above, the contracting
   officer may authorize advance payments to the Washington Metropolitan Area
   Transit Authority (WMATA) for support services provided by WMATA to the
   District Department of Transportation (DDOT) for construction projects or
   other activities conducted by or on behalf of DDOT on or near WMATA property. 
   WMATA support services shall include, but not be limited to, the provision of
   flaggers to communicate with trains or other WMATA equipment and the provision
   of escorts to monitor safety conditions while work is being performed on or
   near WMATA property.
   
   (o)	Notwithstanding subparagraphs (a) through (g) above, the contracting
   officer may authorize advance payments to a responsible contractor who is a
   provider of goods or services for a presidential inauguration upon a
   determination in writing by the Director that the advance payment is in the
   best interest of the District.

   3205.2. Before authorizing advance payments, the contracting officer shall
   obtain the approval of the head of the procuring agency. The request for
   approval shall be in the form of a written determination and findings which
   sets forth the contracting officer&#8217;s findings on each of the criteria
   set forth in §3205.1 and includes a copy of the DSLDB recommendation.

   3205.3. If the request for advance payments is approved, the contracting
   officer shall ensure that the contractor gives adequate security and that the
   advance payments do not exceed the unpaid contract price.

   3205.4. A contracting officer shall not authorize advance payments to a
   contractor that is also receiving a bond reduction under the same contract
   without the prior written approval of the Director based on a determination
   that the financial risk to the District would not be unreasonable and that the
   use of both bond reductions and advance payments would be in the best
   interests of the District.

   3205.5. If a contractor requesting advance payments is also receiving advance
   payments under another District contract, the contracting officer shall
   include this information in the determination and findings, and shall consider
   the additional financial risk to the District when making his or her
   recommendation.

   3205.6. When advance payments are made under a contract, the contracting
   officer shall closely monitor the performance of the contractor and the
   contractor&#8217;s financial condition. A contractor receiving advance
   payments shall be subject to audit at any time, as determined by the
   contracting officer.

   3205.7. The contracting officer may suspend or terminate advance payments if
   the contractor fails to account adequately for the use of advance funds or
   fails to use the funds to meet obligations related to the contract, including
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Failure to pay wages due to contract personnel;
   
   
   
   (b)	Failure to escrow withholding and payroll taxes and make required periodic
   tax deposits; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Any other failure to meet any other financial obligation under the
   contract for which advance payments are intended.

   3205.8. Advance payments shall be made into a special account established at a
   District of Columbia banking institution approved by the Director, in
   accordance with procedures established by the Director and approved by the
   Deputy Mayor for Finance. A separate account shall be established for each
   contract.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1626 (February 26, 1988); as
   amended by Emergency Rulemaking at 48 DCR 3585 (April 20, 2001)[EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 8042 (August 24, 2001); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 5562 (June 15, 2001); as
   amended by Emergency Rulemaking at 48 DCR 8457 (September 7, 2001)[EXPIRED];
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 7918 (August 16, 2002); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 5564, 5565 (July 10, 2009); as
   amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DCR
   6105 (July 22, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 58 DCR 7983 (September 9, 2011); as amended by Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 10450 (August 31, 2012).
