                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFERRED PAYMENT AGREEMENTS (ยง 27-3235)

3235.1. The arrangement for deferred payment shall be in the form of a written
   agreement providing for deferred payment of the debt. The agreement shall be
   signed by the contracting officer and the contractor.

   3235.2. The deferred payment agreement shall include appropriate covenants and
   securities, in a form approved by the Director, and shall be limited to the
   shortest practicable maturity.

   3235.3. At a minimum, the contracting officer shall include the following in
   the deferred payment agreement:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the debt;
   
   
   
   (b)	The date of the first demand for payment;
   
   
   
   (c)	Notice of interest charges pursuant to ยง3236;
   
   
   
   (d)	The method for making payments and the office to which the payments shall
   be made;
   
   
   
   (e)	A requirement for the contractor to submit financial information requested
   by the District, and for reasonable access to the contractor&#8217;s records
   and property by District representatives; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Provisions for termination of the deferred payment arrangement and
   acceleration of the maturity of the debt if the contractor defaults on the
   deferred payment agreement or the underlying contract, or if bankruptcy or
   insolvency proceedings are instituted by or against the contractor.

   3235.4. If the contractor&#8217;s appeal of the debt is pending, the deferred
   payment agreement shall include a provision, approved by the Director,
   requiring the contractor to diligently prosecute the appeal and to pay the
   debt in full either when the appeal is decided or when the contractor and the
   District agree on the debt amount.

   3235.5. If the contractor does not plan to appeal the debt or file an action
   under the disputes clause of the contract, the deferred payment agreement
   shall include a specific schedule of payments.

   3235.6. The deferred payment agreement shall include a provision, approved by
   the Director, allowing the contractor to make prepayments without prejudice
   for refund of overpayments and for crediting of interest.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1641 (February 26, 1988).
