                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROGRESS PAYMENTS BASED ON COSTS (ยง 27-3215)

3215.1. For the purpose of making progress payments and determining the
   limitations on progress payments, the contract price shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Under firm-fixed-price contracts, the contract price shall be the current
   contract price plus any unpriced modifications for which funds have been
   obligated;
   
   
   
   (b)	If the contract is redeterminable or subject to economic price adjustment,
   the contract price shall be the initial price until modified;
   
   
   
   (c)	Under a fixed-price incentive contract, the contract price shall be the
   target price plus any unpriced modifications for which funds have been
   obligated. However, if the contractor&#8217;s properly incurred costs exceed
   the target price, the contracting officer may provisionally increase the price
   up to the ceiling or maximum price; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Under a letter contract, the contract price shall be fifty percent (50%)
   of the maximum amount of the definitive contract.

   3215.2. For the purpose of making progress payments and determining the
   limitation on progress payments, any portion of the contract specifically
   providing for reimbursement of costs only shall be excluded from the contract
   price.

   3215.3. The contracting officer shall not make progress payments or increase
   the contract price beyond the funds obligated under the contract, as amended.

   3215.4. Bids conditioned on progress payments when the solicitation does not
   provide for progress payments shall be rejected as nonresponsive.

   3215.5. A contracting officer may provide for customary progress payments if
   the contractor will not be able to bill for delivery of products (or other
   performance milestones) for a substantial time (not less than four (4) months)
   after work must begin and, during the predelivery period, will make
   expenditures for contract performance that have a significant impact on the
   contractor&#8217;s working capital.

   3215.6. The contracting officer shall not provide for progress payments on
   contracts of less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), except in
   cases where a certified minority contractor is performing multiple contracts
   which total more than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000).

   3215.7. A contracting officer shall not provide for progress payments if the
   contract items are quick turnover types for which progress payments are not a
   customary commercial practice, such as the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Subsistence;
   
   
   
   (b)	Clothing;
   
   
   
   (c)	Medical and dental supplies; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Standard commercial items not requiring a substantial accumulation of
   predelivery expenditures by the contractor.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1630 (February 26, 1988).
