                                  DC REGULATIONS

USES OF CONTRACTING FINANCING (ยง 27-3201)

3201.1. Contract financing by the District shall be used only for financing
   contractor working capital, and shall not be used for the expansion of
   contractor-owned facilities.

   3201.2. Except for contracts under which facilities are being procured for
   District ownership, contract financing by the District shall not be used for
   the procurement of fixed assets.

   3201.3. Contract financing in the form of advance payments may be used by a
   contracting officer to assist a contractor that is a certified minority
   business enterprise.

   3201.4. Contract financing in the form of progress payments may be used by a
   contracting officer to assist a contractor when private financing for a
   contract is either unavailable or insufficient.

   3201.5. The customary progress payment rate shall be ninety percent (90%)
   applicable to the total costs of performing the contract. The contracting
   officer may authorize a customary rate of ninety-five percent (95%) for a
   certified minority business.

   3201.6. Any rate higher than the rates authorized under ยง3201.5 shall be
   considered an unusual progress payment rate. The contracting officer shall
   only authorize progress payments at an unusual rate if both of the following
   apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The contract necessitates predelivery expenditures that are large in
   relation to the contract price and in relation to the contractor&#8217;s
   working capital and credit; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The contractor fully documents the need to supplement any private
   financing available.

   3201.7. To encourage contractors to invest their own funds in performance
   despite the susceptibility of the contract to termination for the convenience
   of the District, the contract financing methods set forth in this section may
   be applied to the financing of terminations either in connection with, or
   independently of, financing for contract performance.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1625 (February 26, 1988).
