                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPORTING AND REPARING REQUIREMENTS FOR GAS LEAKS AND ODOR COMPLAINTS (§
15-3702)

3702.1. The natural gas utility’s reporting and repair requirements for gas
   leaks and odor complaints shall follow four steps: (i) respond to all leaks
   and odor complaints; (ii) notify, by e-mail and telephone, OE and OPC; (iii)
   provide periodic updates to the initial notification; and (iv) submit written
   reports on the results of the leak detection and repair, and odor complaints. 
   The leak detection, classification, and repair personnel should meet the
   federal training requirements for natural gas operations, maintenance, and
   emergencies (49 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 192).

   3702.2. The natural gas utility shall respond to (be at the site of) all gas
   leaks or customer reported odor complaint calls involving a strong gas leak,
   carbon monoxide, illness, broken service main or gaslight, fire in progress,
   explosion, uncontrolled appliance heat, steam or noise, gas blowing or
   hissing, second call, or pressure alarm, or presents an immediate or probable
   hazard to persons or property and requires immediate repair or continuous
   action until the conditions are no longer hazardous within fifty (50) minutes
   after the utility’s dispatch has been informed about the leak and/or odor
   complaint during business or non-business hours.  The natural gas utility
   shall respond to (be at the site of) all gas leaks or customer reported odor
   complaint calls involving a “medium” gas leak, noise, or a leak that is
   recognized as being non-hazardous at the time of detection, but requires
   scheduled repair based on probable future hazard, within sixty (60) minutes
   after the utility’s dispatch has been informed about the leak and/or odor
   complaint during business or non-business hours.  For gas leaks and customer
   reported odor complaint calls involving a “slight” gas leak, or a leak
   that is non-hazardous at the time of detection and can be reasonably expected
   to remain non-hazardous, a response shall involve making a determination as to
   the severity of the gas leaks and/or reported odor complaints and indicating
   to the customer/caller when a representative will be at the site, but not
   later than ninety-five (95) minutes after the utility’s dispatch has been
   informed about the leak and/or odor complaint during business and non-business
   hours.  The natural gas utility shall provide the results to OE and OPC on a
   semi-annual basis. The natural gas utility shall provide explanations if these
   time limits are exceeded.

   3702.3. The natural gas utility shall report to OE and OPC by telephone and
   e-mail all natural gas leaks and customer reported odor complaint calls at the
   earliest practicable time, but not later than one (1) hour after the
   utility’s dispatch has been informed about and determined that the odor
   complaint resulted from a leak and/or the dispatch has determined that a leak
   has occurred on the utility’s gas system, with as much detailed information
   as possible.  To the extent all information required by Section 3702.5 is not
   available at the time of the initial communication, the natural gas utility
   shall within two (2) hours of the dispatch supplement its initial report with
   the additional information. Gas leaks found inside customers’ facilities and
   odor complaints where no leaks are found shall not be reported.  This
   reporting requirement applies to business and non-business hours.

   3702.4. Each gas leak shall be categorized as Grade 1, 2, or 3. All leaks
   shall be classified with the following criteria:
   
   
   
   	(a)	Grade 1:  A leak that presents an immediate or probable hazard to persons
   or property, and requires immediate repair or continuous action until the
   conditions are no longer hazardous;
   
   
   
   (b)	Grade 2: A leak that is recognized as being non-hazardous at the time of
   detection, but requires scheduled repair based on probable future hazard; and
   
   
   
   	(c)	Grade 3: A leak that is non-hazardous at the time of detection and can be
   reasonably expected to remain non-hazardous.
   
   
   
   3702.5 	Each telephone and e-mail report of a Grade 1 leak or a leak due to a
   gas-related odor complaint shall state clearly, at a minimum, the following
   information:
   
   
   
   
   
    	A description of the type of leak(s);
   
   
   
   
   
    	The location of the leak(s), including street addresses;
   
   
   
   
   
    	The ward(s) and/or quadrant(s) where the leak(s) occurred;
   
   
   
   
   
   The estimated number of customers and/or persons whose service was disrupted,
   if known;
   
   
   
   
   
   A preliminary assessment as to the cause of the leak(s), if known; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	The estimated time to repair the leak, if known.
   
   
   
   The natural gas utility shall provide regular updates, to OE and OPC, to the
   initial report as it receives more information.
   
   
   
   3702.6 	Each e-mail report of a Grade 2 leak shall state clearly, at a
   minimum, the following information:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	A description of the type of leak(s);
   
   
   
   
   
    	The location of the leak(s), including street addresses;
   
   
   
   
   
    	The ward(s) and/or quadrant(s) where the leak(s) occurred;
   
   
   
   
   
   A preliminary assessment as to the cause of the leak(s), if known;  and
   
   
   
   
   
    	The estimated time to repair the leak(s), if known.
   
   
   
   3702.7 	Each e-mail report of a Grade 3 leak shall state clearly, at a
   minimum, the following information:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	A description of the type of leak(s);
   
   
   
   
   
    	The location of the leak(s), including street addresses; and
   
   
   
   
   
    	The ward(s) and/or quadrant(s) where the leak(s) occurred.

   3702.8. All Grade 1 leaks shall be promptly repaired.  If not repaired
   immediately, upon detection, the utility shall submit a weekly written report
   to OE and OPC regarding the status of and the utility’s progress in
   completing the leak repair.  The natural gas utility shall inform OE and OPC
   prior to making any changes to the estimated leak repair time(s).

   3702.9. Each written report concerning Grade 1 leaks or customer reported odor
   complaint leaks shall state clearly, at a minimum, the following information
   as applicable to the incident:
   
   
   
   
   
   Address and location of the leak or odor;
   
   
   
   
   
   A description of the type of leak;
   
   
   
   
   
   Pressure involved (Transmission, High Pressure, Medium Pressure or Low
   Pressure);
   
   
   
   
   
   The ward(s) and/or quadrant(s) where the leak has been identified;
   
   
   
   
   
   The time the utility received the first call regarding a gas leak or leak
   detection;
   
   
   
   
   
   The cause of the leak, if known;
   
   
   
   
   
   The actual repair time; and
   
   
   
   
   
   Any action taken to date.

   3702.10. Grade 2 leaks shall be monitored and reevaluated at least once every
   six months until cleared with no further signs of leak.  Depending on the
   location and magnitude of the leakage condition, reevaluation may be made
   earlier than six months.  If reevaluation of a Grade 2 leak indicates
   potential hazard, it shall be scheduled for repair within five (5) working
   days of completed evaluation.  For Grade 2 leaks that do not pose an immediate
   hazard, the utility shall schedule repairs within thirty (30) days.  Grade 2
   leaks shall be repaired or cleared within one calendar year, but no later than
   15 months from the date the leak was reported.

   3702.11. Grade 3 leaks shall be monitored and reevaluated during the next
   scheduled leak survey, or within 15 months of the date reported, whichever
   occurs first, until the leak is regraded or cleared with no further signs of
   leak.
   
   
   
   3702.12 	Written reports for leaks classified as Grade 2 and Grade 3 shall be
   filed semi-annually with OCMS and OPC.  The report shall be submitted
   forty-five (45) days after the reporting period, starting with the six-month
   reporting period following the NGQSS’s adoption in Title 15 of the District
   of Columbia Municipal Regulations (DCMR).
   
   
   
   3702.13 	Each semi-annual written report concerning Grade 2 leaks, shall state
   clearly, at a minimum, the following information as applicable:
   
   
   
   
   
   	Address and location of the leak or odor;
   
   
   
   
   
    	A description of the type of leak;
   
   
   
   
   
   	Pressure involved (Transmission, High Pressure, Medium Pressure
   
   	or Low Pressure);
   
   
   
   
   
   The ward(s) and/or quadrant(s) where the leak was identified;
   
   
   
   
   
   Assessment as to the cause of the leak(s); and
   
   
   
   
   
   The schedule and the status of repair of all Grade 2 leaks consistent with the
   standard provided in Section 3702.10.
   
   3702.14 	Each semi-annual written report concerning Grade 3 leaks, shall state
   clearly, at a minimum, the following information as applicable:
   
   
   
   
   
   	Address and location of the leak or odor;
   
   
   
   
   
    	A description of the type of leak;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Pressure involved (Transmission, High Pressure, Medium Pressure
   
   	or Low Pressure);
   
   
   
   
   
    	The ward(s) and/or quadrant(s) where the leak was identified; and
   
   
   
   
   
   	The status of reevaluation and repair schedule, if applicable, of Grade 3
   leaks, consistent with Section 3702.11.

   3702.15. The natural gas utility shall create and maintain database(s) for all
   gas leaks and customer reported gas-related odor complaints.  The database(s)
   shall be referred to as the “Leak Identification, Detection and Repair, and
   Odor Complaints (LIDAROC)”.  The database(s) shall contain, at a minimum,
   the grade of the leak, type of leak, location of the leak, the ward and/or
   quadrant where the leak occurred, estimated number of customers whose services
   were disrupted because of the leak, the cause of the leak, response time,
   estimated and actual time to repair the leak, and actions taken.  The natural
   gas utility shall incorporate all natural gas leaks and customer reported odor
   complaint calls into the database(s) within five (5) days of receipt of the
   gas-related odor complaint and/or determination that a leak has occurred on
   its gas system.  The database(s) shall be organized in a way that permits
   analysis of the data by the time taken to respond, repair, and resolve the gas
   leaks.

   3702.16. The natural gas utility shall update the database(s) after it has
   repaired and/or resolved the leak and customer reported odor complaints and
   shall submit an electronic and a hard copy of the database (s) to OE and OPC
   on a quarterly basis.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 7646 (September 25,
   2009), incorporating text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 1827,
   1835 (February 27, 2009); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR
   9562 (December 25, 2009), incorporating text of Proposed Rulemaking published
   at 56 DCR 8599 (October 30, 2009).
