                                  DC REGULATIONS

RELIABILITY STANDARDS, LOW PRESSURE WATER INFILTRATION, UNDERGROUND DAMAGE
PREVENTION, LOST TIME ACCIDENTS OSHA 300 LOG (§ 15-3705)

The natural gas utility shall establish a gas main ranking index to determine
   its gas main segments (including associated service lines) most in need of
   improvement or replacement.  Factors associated with the main ranking index
   for making improvement and replacement decisions include, poor leak history,
   poor cathodic protection or poor gas main conditions determined from visual
   observations, poor pressure in the area, interruption of service due to water
   infiltration, segment affected by city or state public improvement projects,
   etc.  At least once each calendar year, the natural gas utility shall rank and
   identify areas of piping networks of its natural gas operating system
   requiring improvements to eliminate segments most susceptible to leakage,
   failure, supply interruptions or failure to   meet its minimum design pressure
   and volume deliverability requirements.  The utility shall establish a
   performance ranking by area, on a scale of one to ten, one being the poorest
   performing segment.  The natural gas utility shall provide the results to OE
   and OPC on a biennial basis.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Each calendar year, the natural gas utility shall perform the necessary
   analysis for the issues identified in Section 3705.1, and provide plans for
   eliminating the ten worst performing segments due to low pressure or
   interruption problems.  The natural gas utility shall file the results with
   OCMS and OPC on a biennial basis.

   3705.3. The natural gas utility shall respond to all underground utility
   locate requests and locate their facilities in accordance with the damage
   prevention laws established within the District of Columbia and the U.S.
   Department of  Transportation.  The utility shall maintain an accurate count
   of all locate requests, responses to locate requests, number of gas main and
   service lines inaccurately marked which resulted in damages or construction
   delays, number of locations which the utility failed to mark as required by
   the damage prevention rules, number of calls not made by excavation
   contractors for accurately marked utility lines as determined by calls or
   reports of incidents to underground utilities, damages caused by excavators or
   third party to gas facilities (both above ground and underground), third party
   responsible for the damage, and the root cause(s) of the damage.  An annual
   report shall be filed with OCMS and OPC in the QSSPR.

   3705.4. The natural gas utility shall monitor high volume condensate drips on
   its low pressure distribution network to minimize service continuity
   disruption.  In no case shall a natural gas customer outage due to condensate
   accumulation be more than 5% of the low-pressure customer base during two
   consecutive winter periods.  The natural gas utility shall prepare a
   remediation plan within 120 days of exceeding the 5% standard  of service 
   interruption, for the approval of the Commission, and provide a target date
   for completion of the recommended repair to the low-pressure piping network. 
   The natural gas utility shall file the results with OCMS and OPC on an annual
   basis in the QSSPR.

   3705.5. The standard in 3705.4 may be changed or modified, at a later date,
   based on a study of trends in service interruptions.

   3705.6. The natural gas utility shall measure annually its Lost Time Accident
   Rate as reported in the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
   (“OSHA”) 300 Log Summary of Occupational Injuries and Illnesses.  The
   natural gas utility may provide this information on a system-wide basis with a
   breakdown for each of the jurisdictions.  The natural gas utility shall
   provide the results to OE and OPC on an annual basis in the QSSPR.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 7646 (September 25,
   2009), incorporating text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 1827,
   1844 (February 27, 2009).
