                                  DC REGULATIONS

INCOME CRITERIA (§ 29-2004)

2004.1. The program of financial assistance described in this chapter shall be
   available to both uninsured individuals and to persons covered by health
   insurance plans (up to the amount of any insurance co-payment required for the
   purchase of an eligible drug under those plans).

   2004.2. If the applicant is eighteen (18) years of age or older, the
   applicant’s household, for purposes of this chapter, shall include the
   applicant, his or her spouse (if the spouse is residing in the same
   household), and any persons under age twenty-one (21) for whom the applicant
   is financially responsible.

   2004.3. If the applicant is an individual under the age of eighteen (18)
   years, the applicant’s household, for purposes of this chapter, shall
   include the applicant, his or her parent(s) residing in the home, and any
   other persons under age twenty-one (21) who resides in the home.

   2004.4. If the applicant is eighteen (18) years of age or older, “household
   income,” for purposes of this chapter, is defined as the total gross income,
   before taxes and other deductions, of the applicant and his or her spouse, if
   the spouse is residing in the same household.

   2004.5. If the applicant is younger than eighteen (18) years of age and living
   with his or her parent(s), “household income,” for purposes of this
   chapter, is defined as the total gross income, before taxes and other
   deductions, of the applicant and his or her parent(s) residing in the same
   household.

   2004.6. If the applicant is younger than eighteen (18) years of age and living
   alone or with a spouse and children, “household income,” for purposes of
   this chapter, is defined as the total gross income, before taxes and other
   deductions, of the applicant and his or her spouse, if the spouse is residing
   in the same household.

   2004.7. Income eligibility, for purposes of this chapter, shall be determined
   on the basis of gross income received in the calendar month of application.

   2004.8. Income eligibility for both uninsured and insured individuals shall be
   determined as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	A monthly income eligibility level for each size household equal to five
   hundred percent (500%) of the federal poverty level shall be calculated by
   multiplying the current federal poverty income level by five (5) and then
   dividing the result by twelve (12); and
   
   
   
   (b)	The result shall be rounded up to the nearest dollar; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Persons whose household income is less than or equal to the monthly income
   eligibility level shall qualify for full payment of the cost of the eligible
   drugs.

   2004.9. Applicants shall have the right to an appeal regarding an eligibility
   determination made under this program.

   2004.10. Information on how to request an appeal shall be provided to the
   applicant along with the notice of eligibility determination.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 4935, 4937 (July 14, 1989).
