                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUSPENSION (ยง 27-2215)

2215.1. The Director may suspend a contractor upon determining that there is
   adequate evidence of any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Probable cause for debarment pursuant to ยง2213.1;
   
   
   
   (b)	The commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with
   obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public contract or
   subcontract;
   
   
   
   (c)	The violation of any federal, state, or District antitrust statute
   relating to the submission of offers;
   
   
   
   (d)	The commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or
   destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property;
   
   
   
   (e)	The commission of any other offense indicating a lack of business
   integrity or business honesty that seriously and directly affects the present
   responsibility of the contractor or subcontractor; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Any other cause of so serious or compelling a nature that it affects the
   present responsibility of a contractor or subcontractor.

   2215.2. Indictment for any of the causes set forth in ยง2215.1 shall
   constitute adequate evidence for suspension.

   2215.3. Suspension shall constitute suspension of all divisions or other
   organizational elements of the contractor, unless the suspension decision is
   limited by its terms to specific divisions, organizational elements, or
   commodities.

   2215.4. In assessing the adequacy of the evidence, the Director shall consider
   the amount of information available, the credibility of the information given
   the circumstances, whether important allegations are corroborated, and the
   inferences that can reasonably be drawn. This assessment shall include an
   examination of basic documents, such as contracts, inspection reports, and
   correspondence.

   2215.5. The Director may extend the suspension decision to include any
   affiliates of the contractor if they are specifically named and given written
   notice of the suspension and an opportunity to respond.

   2215.6. The suspension of a contractor shall be effective throughout all
   agencies subject to the provisions of the D.C. procurement regulations unless
   the Director determines in writing, based on compelling reasons and
   certification by the head of a contracting agency, that continued business
   dealings between that agency and the contractor are justified.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1536 (February 26, 1988).
