                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONFLICTING CONTRACTOR INVOLVEMENT (ยง 27-2221)

2221.1. A contractor that provides systems engineering and technical direction
   for a system, but does not have overall contractual responsibility for its
   development, integration, assembly and checkout, or production, shall not be
   awarded any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A contract to supply the system or any of its major components;
   
   
   
   (b)	A subcontract to supply the system or any of its major components; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A consulting contract with a supplier of the system or any of its major
   components.

   2221.2. If a contractor prepares and furnishes complete specifications
   covering nondevelopmental items to be used in a competitive procurement, that
   contractor shall not be allowed to furnish those items, either as a prime
   contractor or as a subcontractor, for a reasonable period of time to include
   at least the duration of the initial production contract. This subsection
   shall not apply to the following;
   
   
   
   (a)	Contractors that furnish, at District request, specifications or data
   regarding a product they provide, even though the specifications or data may
   have been paid for separately or in the price of the product; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Contractors acting as industry representatives that assist District
   agencies prepare, refine, or coordinate specifications, regardless of source,
   when the assistance is supervised and controlled by District representatives.

   2221.3. If a single contractor drafts complete specifications for
   nondevelopmental equipment, the contractor shall be eliminated for a
   reasonable time from competition for production based on those specifications.

   2221.4. If a contractor prepares, or assists in preparing, a work statement to
   be used in competitively procuring a system or services, or provides material
   leading directly, predictably, and without delay to this type of work
   statement, that contractor shall not supply the system or services unless one
   (1) or more of the following apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The contractor is the sole source;
   
   
   
   (b)	The contractor has participated in the developmental and design work; or
   
   
   
   (c)	More than one (1) contractor has been involved in preparing the work
   statement.

   2221.5. A contract involving technical evaluation of other contractors&#8217;
   offers, products, or consulting services shall not be awarded to a contractor
   that would evaluate or advise the District concerning its own products or
   activities, or those of a competitor, without proper safeguards to ensure
   objectivity and protect the District&#8217;s interests.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1541 (February 26, 1988).
