                                  DC REGULATIONS

RESPONSIBLE PROSPECTIVE CONTRACTORS (§ 27-2200)

2200.1. The contracting officer shall make purchases from and award contracts
   only to responsible contractors.

   2200.2. The contracting officer shall not make a purchase or award unless the
   contracting officer has determined in writing that the prospective contractor
   is responsible in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

   2200.3. In the absence of information clearly indicating that the prospective
   contractor is responsible, the contracting officer shall make a determination
   of nonresponsibility.

   2200.4. To be determined responsible, a prospective contractor shall meet all
   of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Financial resources adequate to perform the contract or the ability to
   obtain them;
   
   
   
   (b)	Ability to comply with the required or proposed delivery or performance
   schedule, taking into consideration all existing commercial and governmental
   business commitments;
   
   
   
   (c)	A satisfactory performance record;
   
   
   
   (d)	A satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics;
   
   
   
   (e)	The necessary organization, experience, accounting and operational
   controls, and technical skills or the ability to obtain them;
   
   
   
   (f)	Compliance with the applicable District licensing and tax laws and
   regulations;
   
   
   
   (g)	The necessary production, construction, and technical equipment and
   facilities or the ability to obtain them; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Other qualifications and eligibility criteria necessary to receive an
   award under applicable laws and regulations.

   2200.5. If the contracting officer determines that the price bid or offered by
   a prospective contractor is so low as to appear unreasonable or unrealistic,
   the contracting officer may determine the prospective contractor to be
   nonresponsible.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: D.C. Code §§ 1-1181; Mayor&#8217;s Order 2002-207.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1525 (February 26, 1988).
