                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEBARMENT (ยง 27-2213)

2213.1. The Director may debar a contractor for any of the following causes:
   
   
   
   (a)	Conviction of, or civil judgment for, commission of fraud or a criminal
   offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a
   public contract or subcontract;
   
   
   
   (b)	Conviction of, or civil judgment for, violation of any federal, state, or
   District antitrust statute relating to the submission of offers;
   
   
   
   (c)	Conviction of, or civil judgment for, commission of embezzlement, theft,
   forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false
   statements, or receiving stolen property;
   
   
   
   (d)	Conviction of, or civil judgment for, commission of any other offense
   indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty that seriously and
   directly affects the present responsibility of the contractor or
   subcontractor;
   
   
   
   (e)	Violation of the terms of a District contract or subcontract so serious as
   to justify debarment such as willful failure to perform in accordance with the
   terms of one (1) or more District contracts, a history of failure to perform,
   or unsatisfactory performance on one (1) or more District contracts;
   
   
   
   (f)	A false assertion of minority status as defined in the Minority
   Contracting Act of 1976, effective March 29, 1977 (D.C. Law 1-95, D.C. Code
   ยง1-1141 et seq.); or
   
   
   
   (g)	Any other cause of a serious or compelling nature that affects the present
   responsibility of the contractor or subcontractor.

   2213.2. Debarment shall constitute debarment of all divisions or other
   organizational elements of the contractor, unless the debarment decision is
   limited by its terms to specific divisions, organizational elements, or
   commodities.

   2213.3. The Director may extend the debarment decision to include any
   affiliates of the contractor by specifically naming the affiliate and giving
   the affiliate written notice of the proposed debarment and an opportunity to
   respond in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

   2213.4. Debarment shall be for a period commensurate with the seriousness of
   the cause(s), but shall not exceed three (3) years. If suspension precedes a
   debarment, the suspension period shall be considered in determining the
   debarment period.

   2213.5. The Director may reduce the period or extent of debarment, upon the
   contractor&#8217;s request supported by documentation, for the following
   reasons:
   
   
   
   (a)	Newly discovered material evidence;
   
   
   
   (b)	Reversal of the conviction or judgment upon which debarment was based;
   
   
   
   (c)	Bona fide change in ownership or management;
   
   
   
   (d)	Elimination of other causes for which the debarment was imposed; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Other reasons that the Director deems appropriate.

   2213.6. The Director may extend the debarment period for an additional period
   if the Director determines that the extension is necessary to protect the
   interests of the District. However, a debarment may not be extended solely on
   the basis of the facts and circumstances upon which the initial debarment was
   based. The extension of debarment shall be subject to the procedures set forth
   in ยง2214.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1533 (February 26, 1988).
