                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEBARMENT PROCEEDINGS (ยง 27-2214)

2214.1. The Director shall initiate debarment proceedings by notifying the
   	contractor and any specifically named affiliates by certified mail, return
   	receipt requested, of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The reasons for the proposed debarment in sufficient detail to put the
   contractor on notice of the conduct or transaction(s) upon which the proposed
   debarment is based;
   
   
   
   (b)	The cause(s), as set forth in ยง2213.1 or the Act, relied upon for the
   proposed debarment;
   
   
   
   (c)	That, within fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt of the notice, the
   person or business may submit, in person, in writing, or through a
   representative, information and argument in opposition to the proposed
   debarment, including any additional specific information that raises a genuine
   issue of material fact;
   
   
   
   (d)	The District&#8217;s procedures governing debarment decision-making;
   
   
   
   (e)	The potential effect of the proposed debarment; and
   
   
   
   (f)	That, if no suspension is in effect, the District will not solicit offers
   from, award contracts to renew, extend contracts with, or consent to
   subcontracts with the contractor pending a debarment decision.

   2214.2. In debarment actions not based upon a conviction or civil judgment, if
   the Director finds that the contractor&#8217;s submission in opposition raises
   a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed debarment, the Director
   shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Afford the contractor an opportunity to appear with counsel, submit
   documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any District evidence or
   testimony; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Make an electronic record of the proceedings, and make a copy or
   transcription of the record available at cost to the contractor upon request.

   2214.3. In any action in which the proposed debarment is not based upon a
   conviction or civil judgment, the cause for debarment shall be established by
   a preponderance of the evidence.

   2214.4. In actions based upon a conviction or civil judgment, or in which
   there is no genuine issue of material fact, the Director shall make a decision
   on the basis of all the information in the administrative record, including
   any submission made by the contractor.

   2214.5. If no suspension is in effect, the decision under ยง2214.4 shall be
   made within thirty (30) working days after receipt of any information and
   argument submitted by the contractor, unless the Director extends this period
   for good cause.

   2214.6. In actions in which additional proceedings are necessary to decide
   issues of material fact, the Director shall prepare written findings of fact.
   The Director shall base the debarment decision on the facts as found, together
   with any information and argument submitted by the contractor and any other
   information in the administrative record.

   2214.7. If the Director decides to impose debarment, the contractor and any
   affiliates involved shall be given prompt notice of the debarment action by
   certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A reference to the notice of proposed debarment;
   
   
   
   (b)	The specific reasons for debarment;
   
   
   
   (c)	The period of debarment, including effective dates;
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement advising that the debarment is effective throughout the
   executive branch of the District government unless the Director determines in
   writing, based on compelling reasons and certification by the head of a
   contracting agency, that continued business dealings between that agency and
   the contractor are justified; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Notice to the debarred contractor of its rights to judicial or
   administrative review as provided in the Act.

   2214.8. If debarment is not imposed, the Director shall promptly notify the
   contractor and any affiliates involved of the decision by certified mail,
   return receipt requested.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1535 (February 26, 1988); as
   amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DCR
   7564 (August 19, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 58 DCR 8574, 8575 (October 7, 2011).
