                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUSPENSION PROCEEDINGS (ยง 27-2216)

2216.1. In actions not based on an indictment, if the Director finds that the
   contractor&#8217;s submission in opposition to the suspension raises a genuine
   issue of fact material to the suspension, and if no determination has been
   made, on the basis of the advice of the Attorney General, that substantial
   interests of the District in pending or contemplated legal proceedings based
   on the same facts as the suspension would be prejudiced, the Director shall do
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Afford the contractor an opportunity to appear with counsel, submit
   documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any of the
   District&#8217;s evidence or testimony; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Make an electronic record of the proceedings, and make a copy or
   transcription of the record available at cost to the contractor upon request.

   2216.2. When a contractor or any specifically named affiliate is suspended,
   the suspended parties shall be immediately advised by certified mail, return
   receipt requested, of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The basis for the suspension including whether the suspension is based on
   an indictment or other adequate evidence that the contractor has committed
   irregularities of a serious nature in business dealings with the District or
   seriously reflecting on the propriety of further District dealings with the
   contractor, provided that any irregularities shall be described in sufficient
   detail to place the contractor on notice without disclosing the
   District&#8217;s evidence;
   
   (b)	That the suspension is for a temporary period pending the completion of an
   investigation and other legal proceedings that may follow;
   
   
   
   (c)	The causes, based on ยง2215.1 or the Act, relied upon for imposing the
   suspension;
   
   
   
   (d)	The effect of the suspension;
   
   
   
   (e)	That, within thirty (30) working days after receipt of the notice, the
   contractor may submit, in person, in writing, or through a representative,
   information and argument in opposition to the suspension, including any
   additional specific information that raises a genuine issue of material fact;
   
   
   
   (f)	That additional proceedings to decide issues of material fact will be
   conducted unless the action is based on an indictment or a determination is
   made, on the basis of advice of the Attorney General, that the substantial
   interests of the District in pending or contemplated legal proceedings based
   on the same facts as the suspension would be prejudiced; and
   
   
   
   (g)	That the suspended contractor has the right to judicial or administrative
   review as provided in the Act.

   2216.3. In an action based on an indictment in which the contractor&#8217;s
   submission does not raise any genuine issue of material fact, or in which
   additional proceedings to determine disputed material facts have been denied
   on the basis of the advice of the Attorney General, the Director&#8217;s
   decision shall be based on all the information in the administrative record,
   including any submission made by the contractor.

   2216.4. In actions in which additional proceedings are necessary to decide
   issues of material fact, the Director shall prepare written findings of fact.
   The Director shall base the suspension decision on the facts as found,
   information and argument submitted by the contractor, and any other
   information in the administrative record.

   2216.5. The Director&#8217;s decision shall modify or terminate the
   suspension, or leave the suspension in force. Written notice of the
   Director&#8217;s decision shall be sent promptly to the contractor and any
   affiliates involved by certified mail, return receipt requested.

   2216.6. Suspension shall be for a temporary period pending the completion of
   investigation and any legal proceedings, unless the suspension is terminated
   sooner by the Director.

   2216.7. If legal proceedings are not initiated within twelve (12) months after
   the date of the suspension notice, the suspension shall automatically
   terminate, unless the Attorney General requests an extension, in which case
   the suspension may be extended for an additional six (6) months. In no event
   shall a suspension extend beyond eighteen (18) months, unless legal
   proceedings have been initiated within that period.

   2216.8. The Director shall notify the Attorney General of the automatic
   termination date of a suspension at least thirty (30) working days before the
   twelve (12) month period expires, in order to give the Attorney General an
   opportunity to request an extension.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1538 (February 26, 1988).
