                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROCEDURES FOR AVOIDING CONFLICTS (§ 27-2222)

2222.1. When information concerning prospective contractors is necessary to
   identify and evaluate potential organizational conflicts of interest or to
   develop recommended actions, the contracting officer shall seek the
   information from within the District or from other readily available sources.

   2222.2. Before issuing a solicitation for a contract that may involve a
   significant potential conflict, the contracting officer shall recommend to the
   head of the contracting agency a course of action for resolving the conflict.

   2222.3. If the contracting officer initially decides that a particular
   procurement involves a significant potential organizational conflict of
   interest, before issuing the solicitation the contracting officer shall submit
   the following to the head of the contracting agency for approval:
   
   
   
   (a)	A written analysis, including a recommended course of action for avoiding,
   neutralizing, or mitigating the conflict;
   
   
   
   (b)	A draft solicitation provision; and
   
   
   
   (c)	When appropriate, a proposed contract clause.

   2222.4. The head of the contracting agency shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Review the contracting officer&#8217;s analysis and recommended course of
   action, including the draft provision and any proposed clause;
   
   
   
   (b)	Consider the benefits and detriments to the District and prospective
   contractors; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Approve, modify, or reject the recommendation in writing.

   2222.5. After receiving a response from the head of the contracting agency,
   the contracting officer shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Include an approved provision and any approved clause in the solicitation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Consider additional information provided by prospective contractors in
   response to the solicitation or during negotiations; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Before awarding the contract, resolve the potential conflict in a manner
   consistent with the approval or other direction by the head of the contracting
   agency.

   2222.6. Any solicitation that may involve a significant potential
   organizational conflict of interest shall contain a provision which describes
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nature of the potential conflict as seen by the contracting officer;
   
   
   
   (b)	The nature of the proposed restraint upon future contractor activities;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	Depending on the nature of the procurement, whether the terms of any
   proposed conflicts clause and the application of the provisions of §§2220
   through 2222 to the contract are subject to negotiation.

   2222.7. If, as a condition of award, a contractor&#8217;s eligibility for
   future prime contract or subcontract awards would be restricted or a
   contractor would have to agree to some other restraint, the solicitation shall
   contain a conflicts clause, approved by the Director, that specifies both the
   nature and duration of the proposed restraint. The contracting officer shall
   include the conflicts clause in the contract.

   2222.8. Any restraint imposed by a conflicts clause shall be limited to a
   fixed term of reasonable duration which is sufficient to avoid the
   circumstance of unfair competitive advantage or potential bias. In each case,
   the restriction shall specify termination by a specific date or upon the
   occurrence of an identifiable event.

   2222.9. The head of the contracting agency may waive any requirement of
   §§2220 through 2222, except a requirement subject to approval by the
   Director, if the head of the contracting agency determines in writing that the
   application of the rule of procedure in a particular situation would not be in
   the best interests of the District. Each request for a waiver shall be in
   writing, and shall describe the nature of the conflict and the justification
   for the waiver.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1542 (February 26, 1988).
