                                  DC REGULATIONS

OBTAINING INFORMATION FOR DETERMINATION OF RESPONSIBILITY (ยง 27-2204)

2204.1. Before making a determination of responsibility, the contracting
   officer shall possess or obtain information sufficient to satisfy the
   contracting officer that a prospective contractor currently meets the
   applicable standards and requirements for responsibility set forth in this
   chapter.

   2204.2. The contracting officer shall obtain information regarding the
   responsibility of a prospective contractor who is the apparent low bidder or
   whose offer is in the competitive range. This information shall be obtained
   promptly after bid opening or receipt of offers.

   2204.3. The prospective contractor shall promptly supply information requested
   by the contracting officer regarding the responsibility of the prospective
   contractor.

   2204.4. If the prospective contractor fails to supply the information
   requested under ยง2204.3, the contracting officer shall make the determination
   of responsibility or nonresponsibility based upon available information. If
   the available information is insufficient to make a determination of
   responsibility, the contracting officer shall determine the prospective
   contractor to be nonresponsible.

   2204.5. The contracting officer shall use the following sources of
   information, as appropriate, to support determinations of responsibility or
   nonresponsibility:
   
   
   
   (a)	A consolidated list (maintained pursuant to ยง2211.1) of debarred,
   suspended, and ineligible contractors maintained by the Director;
   
   
   
   (b)	Records and experience data, including verifiable knowledge of District
   personnel;
   
   
   
   (c)	Information supplied by the prospective contractor, including bid or
   proposal information, questionnaire replies, financial data, information on
   production equipment, and personnel information;
   
   
   
   (d)	Preaward survey reports; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Other sources, such as publications, suppliers, subcontractors, and
   customers of the prospective contractor, financial institutions, government
   agencies, and business and trade associations.

   2204.6. Any prospective contractor who submits a bid or proposal for any
   contract exceeding one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) shall submit an
   affidavit indicating whether the prospective contractor has complied with the
   filing requirements of District of Columbia tax laws, and whether the
   prospective contractor has paid taxes due to the District of Columbia or is in
   compliance with any payment agreement with the Office of Tax and Revenue. The
   affidavit shall be in a form approved by the Director of the Office of Tax and
   Revenue and shall acknowledge the penalty provided by law for making false
   statements.

   2204.7. Before making an affirmative determination of responsibility for any
   contract exceeding one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), the contracting
   officer shall obtain certification from the Department of Tax and Revenue that
   the prospective contractor has complied with the filing requirements of
   District of Columbia tax laws, and that the prospective contractor has paid
   taxes due to the District of Columbia or is in compliance with any payment
   agreement with the Office of Tax and Revenue.

   2204.8. Contracting officers and contract administrators who become aware of
   circumstances casting doubt on a contractor&#8217;s ability to perform a
   contract successfully shall promptly inform the contracting officer and
   furnish the relevant information in writing.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1528 (February 26, 1988).
