                                  DC REGULATIONS

OPPORTUNITY FOR OPERATOR TO RESPOND (§ 15-2312)

2312.1. A gas corporation or small gas operator that is the subject of a
   formal notice of probable violation shall respond to the Director, Office of
   Engineering, in writing within thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice.

   2312.2. A gas corporation or small gas operator shall respond to the NOPV as
   follows:
   
   (a) 	If the NOPV contains a proposed compliance order, a gas corporation
   or	small gas operator may:
   
   			(1)	Agree to the proposed compliance order;
   
   			(2)	Request the execution of a consent order; or
   
   			(3)	Object to the proposed compliance order and submit 					written
   explanations, information, or other materials in 					answer to the
   allegations in the notice; and
   
   (b)	If the NOPV contains a proposed civil penalty, a gas corporation or small
   gas operator may:
   
   			(1)	Pay the penalty; or
   
   			(2)	Submit a written explanation, information, or other 						material in
   answer to the allegations in the notice and to 					mitigate the proposed
   civil penalty.

   2312.3. If a gas corporation or small gas operator objects to the proposed
   compliance order or civil penalty and submits a written explanation,
   information or other material in response to the NOPV, the Director of the
   Office of Engineering, shall review the submissions and determine, in writing,
   whether there exists good cause to believe a violation has occurred, whether
   to negotiate further, modify, or withdraw the NOPV, or whether to refer the
   matter to the Commission for resolution.  The Director of the Office of
   Engineering shall complete this review within sixty (60) calendar days of the
   receipt of the response and shall serve this determination on the gas
   corporation or small gas operator.

   2312.4. If a gas corporation or small gas operator objects to the
   determination of the Director of the Office of Engineering, the gas
   corporation or small gas operator may request a hearing by the Commission
   within thirty (30) calendar days of the Director’s determination.  A request
   for a hearing must be accompanied by a statement of the issues that the gas
   corporation or small gas operator intends to raise at the hearing.  The issues
   may relate to the allegations in the NOPV, the proposed compliance order, or
   the proposed civil penalty.  Failure to specify an issue may result in waiver
   of the right to raise that issue at the hearing.

   2312.5. The Director of the Office of Engineering, may execute a consent order
   jointly 	with a gas corporation or small gas operator.  An executed consent
   order shall contain:
   
   		(a)	An admission by a gas corporation or small gas operator of all
   				jurisdictional facts;
   
   (b)	An express waiver of further procedural steps and of all right to seek
   judicial review or otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the order;
   
   		(c)	An acknowledgement that the notice of probable violation may be 				used
   to construe the terms of the consent order; and
   
   (d)	A statement of the actions required of the gas corporation or small gas
   operator and the time by which the actions shall be accomplished.

   2312.6. Following an investigation and a determination by the Director of the
   Office of Engineering, that there exists good cause to believe that a gas
   corporation or a small gas operator violated minimum pipeline safety
   requirements, the Director of 	the Office of Engineering, may assess or
   negotiate a civil penalty pursuant to D.C. Official Code § 34-706 (2010 Repl.
   &#038; 2011 Supp.).

   2312.7. In proposing a civil penalty, the Director of the Office of
   Engineering, shall consider the criteria stated in D.C. Official Code §
   34-706.

   2312.8. A gas corporation or small gas operator shall pay a civil penalty that
   has been proposed or compromised by submitting to the Commission a check in
   the correct amount, payable to the U.S. Treasury to the credit of the District
   of Columbia General Fund.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 6625, 6629 (October 24, 1986); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 7 (January 4, 2013).
