                                  DC REGULATIONS

INVESTIGATIONS, INSPECTIONS, SPECIFIC INFORMATION REQUESTS, AND WARNING LETTERS
(§ 15-2310)

2310.1. The Commission, its staff, or agents, shall periodically investigate
   and ascertain the quality and quantity of natural gas supplied to consumers in
   the District of 	Columbia.

   2310.2. The Commission, its staff, or agents shall periodically investigate
   the methods employed by gas corporations or small gas operators under its
   jurisdiction in 	manufacturing, distributing, supplying, and transmitting gas
   for light, heat or power.

   2310.3. Upon presentation of appropriate credentials, the Commission’s
   staff, or duly appointed agents, shall be authorized to enter upon, inspect
   and examine at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner the records and
   property of a gas corporation or small gas operator, or its agents or
   representatives, to the extent such records and property are relevant in
   determining compliance with the provisions of this chapter.

   2310.4. The Office of 	Engineering may conduct periodic inspections of records
   and property in the possession, custody or control of the gas corporation or
   small gas operator to determine compliance with the federal Natural Gas
   Pipeline Safety Act, 49 U.S.C. §§ 1671, et seq. or this chapter. Inspections
   shall be conducted pursuant to one (1) of the following:
   
   		(a)	Routine scheduling;
   
   		(b)	A complaint received from a member of the public;
   
   		(c)	Information obtained from a previous inspection;
   
   		(d)	Pipeline accident or incident; or
   
   		(e)	Whenever the Commission deems it appropriate to do so.

   2310.5. An inspection shall include a thorough review of the operator’s
   records concerning inspection, operation, maintenance, and emergency
   procedures.

   2310.6. Field inspection shall include operational checks of corrosion control
   provisions, overpressure and regulating equipment, odorization, repaired
   leaks, emergency valves, and any other components of the facility.

   2310.7. The Commission’s Office of Engineering shall create and maintain the
   records of such inspections for a period of five (5) years.

   2310.8. The Office of Engineering may send a gas corporation or small gas
   			operator a specific information request.  If so:
   
   (a)	A gas corporation or small gas operator shall respond within fifteen (15)
   business days after receipt of a specific information request relating to a
   possible complaint, probable violation of gas safety regulation or gas
   incident report;
   
   (b) 	Except as provided in  paragraph (a), a gas corporation or small gas
   operator shall respond within thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of a
   specific information request.

   2310.9. Upon determining that a probable violation of 49 U.S.C. §§ 60101, et
   seq., or of this chapter or any regulation or order issued thereunder has
   occurred, the Director of the Office of Engineering, may issue a Warning
   Letter notifying the gas corporation or small gas operator of the probable
   violation and advising the gas corporation or small gas operator to correct
   the violation or be subject to appropriate enforcement action.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 6625, 6628 (October 24, 1986); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published 60 DCR 7 (January 4, 2013).
