                                  DC REGULATIONS

SAFETY (ยง 15-2305)

2305.1. Gas leak detection surveys, including all service lines up to the
   exterior building wall, regardless of meter placement, shall be made as
   follows:
   
   (a)	Business Districts.  A gas corporation shall conduct an annual survey in
   business districts, involving tests of the atmosphere in gas, electric,
   telephone, sewer, and water system manholes, at cracks in pavements and
   sidewalks, and at other locations providing an opportunity for finding gas
   leaks;
   
   (b)	Within ninety (90) days of the effective date of these rules, the gas
   corporation shall provide the Commission with a map of the District of
   Columbia showing Business Districts and shall update the map whenever changes
   are made;
   
   (c)	Places of Public Assembly.  A gas corporation shall conduct an annual
   	survey of service lines to places of public assembly using Hydrogen Flame
   Ionization (HFI) or Combustible Gas Indicator (CGI) or other comparable
   methods.;
   
   (d)	Within ninety (90) days of the effective date of these rules, the gas
   corporation shall provide the Commission with a list of Places of Public
   Assembly in the District of Columbia and shall update the list whenever
   changes are made;
   
   (e)	Each gas corporation or small gas operator shall conduct a	survey of its
   entire distribution system not less than once every three (3) years;
   
   (f)	Leakage tests by HFI or by CGI and bar hole or other comparable approved
   method shall be conducted within the immediate area of each new, repaired or
   replaced gas line after backfilling and after a reasonable period of gas
   pressurizing when the line is being placed into service;
   
   (g)	Whenever a steel pipe or tubing is used in the attachment of a service
   line to a cast iron main, it shall be protected against external corrosion
   using an anode and test station, except in the case of a malleable fitting
   when use of an anode only is sufficient;
   
   (h)	A pipeline no longer meeting cathodic protection criteria shall be
   remediated promptly.  Prompt, as used in this section, is defined as resolving
   the loss of cathodic protection within the next monitoring cycle.  Records
   showing when the pipeline was discovered to have lost cathodic protection and
   when the loss was remedied, along with annual test records, must be kept for
   as long as the pipeline remains in service; and
   
   		(i)	Records of Surveys
   
   			(1)	Each gas corporation or small gas operator shall maintain a 					record
   of each leak survey showing by location and date:
   
   				(A)	Leaks detected; and
   
   				(B)	Severity of each leak; and
   
   (2)	These records shall be kept as long as the segment of pipeline involved
   remains in service.

   2305.2. Pipeline Location
   
   (a)	Burial.  Pipelines shall be buried a minimum of twenty four inches (24
   in.) or eighteen inches (18 in.) in solid rock, where the term solid rock
   indicates the necessity of blasting or the use of pneumatic equipment.
   
   (b)	Exceptions.  Burial depths less than that specified but not less than
   twelve 	inches (12 in.) will be allowed if underground obstructions preclude
   these 	depths, and if special line protection is provided and accepted by the
   Office of Engineering, after submission of documentation justifying the
   exception;
   
   		(c)	As-built drawings shall be made after installation, but before 				the
   pipelines are covered;
   
   (d)	Identification.
   
   			(1)	Tracer wire shall be installed with all plastic pipes; and
   
   (2)	When the open trenching method of pipeline construction is used, suitable
   identification tape shall be installed at a minimum of twelve inches (12 in.)
   above the top of the pipe and at least six inches (6 in.) below the final
   grade after completion of installation
   
   (e)	Each gas corporation or small gas operator shall maintain all relevant
   documentation of plastic pipe joining qualifications, all Operator
   Qualification documentation, up-to-date manuals, and copies of relevant
   procedures. Access to this documentation shall be available at each job site,
   either in hard copy or electronically;
   
   		(f)	Each gas corporation or small gas operator shall provide adequate
   				supervision for its construction crews;
   
   (g)	Each gas corporation or small gas operator shall submit a report of damage
   to the gas pipeline system, including appropriate codes indicating the cause
   of the damage.  This report shall be filed every other month, no later than
   the tenth (10th) of the month; and
   
   (h)	Each gas corporation shall notify the Office of Engineering in writing at
   least ten (10) days before the estimated start date of any construction
   project scheduled for completion in five (5) or more working days, or before
   the estimated start date of work related to an Integrity Management Program.
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 7 (January 4, 2013).
