                                  DC REGULATIONS

PREFERRED USE REQUIREMENTS (§ 11-3305)

Preferred uses shall include any use within the Arts, Design & Creation; Food
&#038; Alcohol Services; Retail; or Service use categories described in §
3303.1.





Each building that faces the following streets or locations in the following
subdistricts shall devote not less than fifty percent (50%) of the gross floor
area of the ground floor to preferred uses:





StE-3, facing Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue S.E., Cypress Street S.E., or
Sycamore Street S.E., and the park;





StE-7, facing Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue S.E., Cypress Street S.E., or
Dogwood Drive S.E., or Oak Drive S.E.;





StE-14b, facing Dogwood Drive S.E., Oak Drive S.E., or the southwest corner;





StE-15, facing Dogwood Drive S.E., 13th Street S.E., Oak Drive S.E., or the
park;





StE-16, facing 13th Street S.E. and the southwest corner; and





StE-17, facing Dogwood Drive S.E., 13th Street S.E., or Oak Drive S.E.





Not less than fifty percent (50%) of the surface area of the street wall,
including building entrances, of those building frontages described in § 3305.2
shall be devoted to doors or display windows having clear or low emissivity
glass.





Preferred uses shall provide direct, exterior access to the ground level.





The minimum floor-to-ceiling height for portions of the ground floor level
devoted to preferred uses shall be fourteen feet (14 ft.).





Ground floor area required for preferred uses may not be transferred to any
other lot through the Combined Lot Development procedures of § 3307.





For good cause shown, the Board of Zoning Adjustment may authorize interim
occupancy of the preferred use space required under § 3305.2 by other uses
permitted in the StE District for up to a five (5) year period, provided that:





The ground-floor space is suitably designed for future occupancy by preferred
uses;





The proposed use is compatible with the surrounding uses; and





It can be demonstrated that a preferred use cannot be accommodated due to market
conditions.







SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 4834 (March 29, 2013).
