                                  DC REGULATIONS

OFF-STREET PARKING (§ 11-3309)

The cumulative total of all parking spaces, including below-grade, surface, and
above-grade structured parking, shall not exceed a total of four thousand eight
hundred (4,800) parking spaces, exclusive of parking on the StE-2 or StE-18
subdistricts, existing surface parking lots, historic structures, and any
parking associated with existing District of Columbia Government facilities.





Each application to the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs for a
development that includes above-grade or below-grade structured parking or
surface parking shall provide an accounting of the total number of parking
spaces within the StE District which count towards the four thousand eight
hundred (4,800) parking space limit.





Additional parking spaces beyond the four thousand eight hundred (4,800) space
limit shall be permitted by special exception by the Board of Zoning Adjustment
pursuant to § 3104 and in accordance with the provisions of § 3304.2 and
3304.3, provided that the applicant addresses compliance with the following
standards:





The application shall include a detailed accounting of the existing and proposed
number and locations of parking spaces provided pursuant to § 3309.1; and
shall also include a traffic study assessing the impacts of the proposed
additional parking spaces on local traffic patterns for referral to and comment
by the District Department of Transportation;





The applicant shall include a transportation demand management (TDM) plan, as
well as District Department of Transportation analysis of the TDM plan.  The
parameters of the analysis shall be outlined by the District Department of
Transportation; and





Vehicular access and egress will be located and designed so as to encourage safe
and efficient pedestrian movement, minimize conflict with principal pedestrian
ways, function efficiently, and create no dangerous or otherwise objectionable
traffic conditions.





For any application pursuant to § 3309.3:





The Board shall judge, balance, and reconcile the need for additional on-site
parking against any adverse impacts the presence of the parking will have on
traffic, and the aesthetics and development of the surrounding neighborhood; and





The Board may impose requirements pertaining to design, appearance, signs,
massing, landscaping, and other such requirements as it deems necessary to
protect neighboring property and to achieve the purposes of the StE District.





Any additional commuter parking, beyond parking that may exist as of (date of
enactment) within the StE-18, shall be for the exclusive use of residents of,
employees within, or visitors to the StE District or Federal employees of the
adjacent Saint Elizabeths West Campus.





Parking spaces shared by more than one use is permitted.





Parking spaces need not be located on the same lot as the building or buildings
they are intended to serve, but must be located on a lot within the StE District
other than the StE-18 or StE-19 subdistrict.





Parking spaces shall not be located between a street right-of-way line and the
more restrictive of either a building façade or a line extending from and
parallel to a building façade.  A building used solely as a parking attendant
shelter shall not trigger this restriction.





Parking spaces provided within a structure shall be located at least twenty feet
(20 ft.) from all lot lines that abut public streets, unless the surface of the
parking spaces is at least ten feet (10 ft.) below grade, at all points along
the building frontage.





Parking spaces within an above-grade structure along 13th Street, Dogwood
Street, and Sycamore Street shall be lined with preferred uses as defined in §
3305.1 on the ground floor to a depth of thirty feet (30 ft.) minimum.





All parking spaces, other than mechanical parking spaces shall be accessible at
all times from a driveway accessing either an improved street or an improved
alley or alley system with a minimum width of ten feet (10 ft.).





Parking spaces provided within a mechanized parking system need not meet the
accessibility requirement of § 3309.10 as long as the mechanized parking system
does.





Parking spaces and drive aisles shall be designed in accordance with the
standards of 11 DCMR Chapter 21 of this title.





Where other options for access to parking spaces exist, such as from an alley or
a different street, access to parking shall not be from a section of street
where preferred uses are required in accordance with § 3305; or from Martin
Luther King Jr. Avenue, S.E., Dogwood Street, 13th Street, or Oak Drive.





Approval of a driveway under this chapter shall not be interpreted to imply
permission for a curb cut in public space.  An applicant for a driveway with a
curb cut in public space shall have the responsibility to obtain all other
necessary approvals and permissions.







SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 4834 (March 29, 2013).
