                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT OF HEARING (ยง 17-1615)

1615.1. Every hearing shall be open to the public.

   1615.2. In connection with any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, the
   hearing examiner shall have the following powers:
   
   
   
   (a)	To request the Director to appoint a representative to present the
   Department&#8217;s case at the hearing;
   
   
   
   (b)	To administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses called to testify;
   
   
   
   (c)	To subpoena witnesses, relevant books, papers, and documents;
   
   
   
   (d)	To take testimony;
   
   
   
   (e)	To examine witnesses;
   
   
   
   (f)	To rule on motions and objections;
   
   
   
   (g)	To direct the continuance of any case;
   
   
   
   (h)	To establish a timetable for the submission of proposed findings of fact,
   conclusions of law, and decision by the parties; and
   
   
   
   (i)	To make proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law and to recommend
   a decision to the Director.

   1615.3. The hearing examiner shall receive and consider any evidence or
   testimony. However, the hearing examiner shall exclude irrelevant, immaterial,
   or unduly repetitious evidence.

   1615.4. In any hearing resulting from the Director&#8217;s contemplated action
   to deny licensure, the applicant for licensure shall have the burden of
   satisfying the hearing examiner of the applicant&#8217;s qualifications.

   1615.5. In any hearing resulting from the Director&#8217;s contemplated action
   to refuse to renew, to suspend, or to revoke a license, or to refuse to
   transfer or restore a license, to impose a fine, or to order restitution, the
   Department shall have the burden of proving that such action should be taken.

   1615.6. In all hearings, a complete record shall be made of all evidence
   presented during the course of the hearing. Any party to the proceedings upon
   request shall be furnished with a copy of the record, or any part of the
   record, upon payment of the cost of producing or reproducing the record or
   part of the record.

   1615.7. The hearing examiner shall take all necessary steps to insure that all
   Department employees who are called by a party as witnesses are present for
   the hearing; Provided, that the party has submitted their names and titles in
   writing to the hearing examiner at least three (3) business days in advance of
   the hearing.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 3165, 3173 (May 15, 1987).
