                                  DC REGULATIONS

AUDITS AND REVIEWS (ยง 29-5016)

5016.1. DHCF shall perform audits to ensure that Medicaid payments are
   consistent with efficiency, economy and quality of care and made in accordance
   with federal and District rules governing Medicaid.

   5016.2. The audit process shall be routinely conducted by DHCF to determine,
   by statistically valid scientific sampling, the appropriateness of services
   rendered and billed to Medicaid. These audits shall be conducted on-site or
   through an off-site, desk review.

   5016.3. Each Provider shall allow access to relevant records and program
   documentation upon request and during an on-site audit or review by DHCF,
   other District of Columbia government officials and representatives of the
   United States Department of Health and Human Services.

   5016.4. If DHCF denies a claim, DHCF shall recoup, by the most expeditious
   means available, those monies erroneously paid to the Provider for denied
   claims, following the period of Administrative Review as set forth in ยง 5017
   of these rules.

   5016.5. The recoupment amounts for denied claims shall be determined by the
   following formula:
   
   (a) 	A fraction shall be calculated with the numerator consisting of the
   number of denied paid claims resulting from the audited sample. The
   denominator shall be the total number of paid claims from the audit sample;
   and
   
   (b) 	This fraction shall be multiplied by the total dollars paid by DHCF to
   the Provider during the audit period, to determine the amount recouped. For
   example, if a Provider received Medicaid reimbursement of ten thousand dollars
   ($10,000) during the audit period, and during a review of the claims from the
   audited sample, it was determined that ten (10) claims out of one hundred
   (100) claims are denied, then ten percent (10%) of the amount reimbursed by
   Medicaid during the audit period, or one thousand dollars ($1000), would be
   recouped.

   5016.6. DHCF shall issue a Notice of Proposed Medicaid Overpayment Recovery
   (NR), which sets forth the reasons for the recoupment, including the specific
   reference to the particular sections of the statute, rules, or provider
   agreement, the amount to be recouped, and the procedures for requesting an
   administrative review.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 15537 (November 8, 2013).
