                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECORDS (§ 29-5013)

5013.1. Each Provider shall maintain complete and accurate records reflecting
   the specific personal care services provided to each beneficiary.

   5013.2. Each Provider shall be responsible for maintaining the confidentiality
   of each beneficiary’s care, treatment, and records. The disclosure of
   personal health information by the Provider is subject to all of the
   provisions set forth in applicable District and Federal laws and rules.

   5013.3. Each beneficiary&#8217;s record shall be readily retrievable and shall
   be kept in a locked room or file maintained and safeguarded against loss or
   unauthorized use at the location of the Provider&#8217;s place of business
   that is identified on the Provider’s Medicaid Provider application.

   5013.4. Each Provider shall permit reviews and on-site inspections to be
   conducted by CMS, its agents, DHCF and its agents to determine Provider
   compliance with all applicable laws.

   5013.5. Each Provider shall comply with the terms of its Medicaid Provider
   Agreement with respect to the maintenance of all beneficiary and financial
   records.

   5013.6. Each beneficiary&#8217;s record shall include, but is not limited to,
   the following information:
   
    (a)	General information including the beneficiary&#8217;s name, Medicaid
   identification number, address, telephone number, age, sex, name and telephone
   of emergency contact person, authorized representative (if applicable), and
   primary care physician&#8217;s or advanced practice registered nurse’s name,
   address, and telephone number;
   
    (b)	Health care information, including all referrals, assessments, service
   authorizations, plans of care, and progress notes;
   
    (c)	Dates and description of PCA services rendered, including the name and
   NPI of the personal care aide performing the services;
   
   (d)	Documentation of each supervisory visit of the registered nurse including
   signed and dated clinical progress notes;
   
   (e)	Discharge summary, if applicable;
   
   (f)	Copies of any written notices given to the beneficiary; and
   
   (g)  	Any other appropriate identifying information that is pertinent to
   beneficiary care.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 15537 (November 8, 2013).
