                                  DC REGULATIONS

STAFFING AGENCIES (§ 29-5010)

5010.1. A Provider may contract with a licensed staffing agency to secure
   staff to deliver PCA services. Agreements between the Provider and the a
   staffing agency providing personal care staffing services shall be in writing
   and include at a minimum, the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A provision requiring the staffing agency to provide the Provider with the
   staffing agency’s NPI number obtained from the NPPES and the NPI numbers of
   all individuals providing personal care services to the home care agency
   throughout the duration of the contract.
   
   
   
   
   
   Business address and e-mail address of each staffing agency ;
   
   
   
   
   
   Provisions making explicit and delineating the Provider’s responsibility to:
   
   
   
   
   
   Manage, supervise and evaluate the PCA services secured through a staffing
   agency; and
   
   
   
   2) 	Be accountable for all services delivered by non-employee PCAs to the same
   extent as if the PCAs were employees of the Provider.
   
   
   
   (d)	The duration of the agreement, including provisions for renewal, if
   applicable; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Assurances that the  staffing agency shall comply with all applicable
   federal and District laws and rules, including all relevant licensing
   requirements imposed by the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   5010.2 	Each Provider contracting with a staffing agency to provide staffing
   for personal care services shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Ensure that the  staffing agency obtains an NPI number for itself and all
   personnel performing personal care services through the agency;
   
   
   
   
   
   Provide DHCF with a copy of any and all contract(s) entered into with  a
   staffing agency; and
   
   
   
   
   
   Ensure that each beneficiary’s records shall be the property of the
   beneficiary’s Provider and are maintained at the Provider’s place of
   business in accordance with Section 5013.

   5010.3. A staffing agency supplying staff to the provider for the delivery of
   personal care services shall be considered an agent of the Provider.

   5010.4. A Provider is prohibited from having a financial relationship with any
   staffing agency providing staffing unless the relationship meets one of the
   exceptions applicable to ownership interests and compensation arrangements
   established in 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b(b)(3) and 42 C.F.R. § 1001.952. A
   financial relationship includes but is not limited to:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A direct or indirect ownership or investment interest (including an option or
   non-vested interest) by the Provider in a staffing agency. This interest may
   be in the form of partnership shares, limited liability company memberships,
   loans, bonds, equity, debt, or other means; and
   
   
   
   
   
   A direct or indirect compensation arrangement other than the contract
   referenced in § 5010.1 between the Provider and the staffing agency for the
   provision of staff to perform personal care services provided the contract
   meets the requirements of 42 C.F.R. § 1001.952(d).

   5010.5. A Provider is prohibited from contracting with a staffing agency that
   is or has engaged in any of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Advertising or marketing directly to Medicaid beneficiaries;
   
   (b)	Misrepresenting the staffing agency as the provider of PCA services; or
   
   (c) 	Offering financial or other types of inducements to individuals for the
   referral of Medicaid beneficiaries, their names, or other identifying
   information to any health care provider.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 3957(May 23, 2003); as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1760, 1776 (March 2, 2012); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 15537 (November 8, 2013).
