                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATION (§ 29-5012)

5012.1. NPI numbers for Providers and staffing agencies, and all personnel
   delivering personal care services shall be included in all Medicaid billings.

   5012.2. Each Provider shall have a current organizational chart that clearly
   describes the organizational structure, management responsibilities, staff
   responsibilities, lines of authority, and use of any contractors.
   
   
   
   5012.3 	Each Provider shall maintain current copies of all fully executed
   contracts including all staffing agency contracts pertaining to the delivery
   of personal care services, in the Provider’s office and make them available
   to DHCF, CMS, and other authorized government officials or their agents when
   requested.

   5012.4. Each Provider shall maintain a copy of each license held by their
   employees and employees of any staffing agency utilized by the Provider for
   the delivery of personal care services.

   5012.5. A Provider shall be prohibited from waiving liability or assigning
   contract authority to any other entity for covered services provided to
   Medicaid beneficiaries.

   5012.6. Each Provider shall provide to all employees and contractors (such as
   staffing agencies providing staffing) a current policy manual which sets forth
   all of its policies and procedures.

   5012.7. Each policy manual shall include, but not be limited to, the following
   information:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A description of the services to be provided;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Procedures for beneficiary care
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The reimbursement methodology or fee schedules;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Operational schedules;
   
   
   
   (e)	Quality assurance standards;
   
   
   
   (f)	A statement of beneficiary rights and responsibilities;
   
   
   
   (g)	Financial and record-keeping requirements;
   
   
   
   (h)	Procedures for emergency care, infection control and reporting of
   incidents;
   
   
   
   (i)	A description of staff positions and personnel policies, which shall be
   reviewed annually, revised as necessary, and dated at time of review;
   
   
   
   (j)	Policies and procedures for hiring, performance assessments, grievances,
   and in-service training of all PCAs who deliver services, regardless of
   whether the PCA is an employee of the Provider or is secured through a
   staffing  agency;
   
   (k)	An up to date listing of professional staff licensure and registration
   information;
   
   
   
   (l)  	An up to date listing of PCA certifications;
   
   
   
   (m) 	Policies and procedures for providing advance notice to beneficiaries in
   accordance with Section 5007; and
   
   
   
   (n)  	Policies, procedures, and presentation materials for owners, managers,
   employees and contractual staff for in-service training on the following
   subjects:
   
   
   
   1)	Compliance with these regulations;
   
   2) 	Compliance with federal and District False Claims Acts;
   
   3) 	Preventing, detecting, and reporting fraud, waste, and abuse; and
   
   4)  	Rights of employees to be protected as whistleblowers.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1760, 1779 (March 2,
   2012); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 15537 (November 8,
   2013).
