                                  DC REGULATIONS

STAFFING (§ 29-5008)

5008.1. Each Provider shall utilize registered nurses to manage and provide
   supervision to PCAs who are qualified to perform all of the functions
   described in Section 5008.3.

   5008.2. Each Provider shall verify that each PCA used to deliver services,
   regardless of whether the personal care aide is an employee of the Provider or
   is secured through another staffing agency, meets the qualifications set forth
   in Section 5009.

   5008.3. Each Provider shall employ an R.N. who is responsible for the
   following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Accepting and reviewing the beneficiary’s PCA Service Authorization and
   initial assessment or reassessment of need for personal care services;
   
   
   
   
   
   Developing a written plan of care in accordance with Section 5005 that meets
   the beneficiary’s assessed needs and preferences within the service
   limitations authorized in the PCA Service Authorization;
   
   
   
   
   
   Updating each beneficiary’s written plan of care based upon subsequent
   reassessments of need;
   
   
   
   
   
   Maintaining a clinical record in accordance with Section 5013;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Reviewing the beneficiary’s plan of care with each assigned PCA and ensuring
   that each assigned PCA has the requisite training, skills and ability to meet
   the beneficiary’s identified needs and preferences;
   
   
   
   
   
   Monitoring the quality of personal care services on a regular basis and
   ensuring that PCA services are delivered in accordance with the
   beneficiary’s Plan of Care;
   
   
   
   
   
   Supervising all PCAs, regardless of whether the PCA is an employee of the
   Provider or is secured through a staffing agency. Supervision shall include
   on-site supervision at least once every sixty (60) days;
   
   
   
   
   
   Coordinating the provision of PCA services with other home health services, as
   appropriate and communicating with each beneficiary’s physician or advanced
   practice R.N., regarding changes in the beneficiary’s condition and needs;
   
   
   
   
   
   Gathering information regarding the beneficiary&#8217;s condition and the need
   for continued care;
   
   
   
   
   
   Communicating and coordinating with DHCF or its designated agent regarding
   changes in the beneficiary’s condition and needs. At a minimum the Provider
   must communicate to DHCF or its designated agent:
   
   
   
   
   
   Any failure or inability of the provider to deliver authorized services within
   three (3) business days of the scheduled visit; and
   
   
   
   
   
   Any change in the beneficiary’s status requiring a modification in the
   amount, duration, or scope of service authorized.
   
   
   
   
   
   Counseling the beneficiary and the beneficiary’s family regarding nursing
   and related needs.

   5008.4. The R.N. nurse shall visit each beneficiary within forty-eight (48)
   hours of initiating personal care services, and no less than every sixty (60)
   days thereafter, to monitor the implementation of the plan of care and the
   quality of PCA services provided to the beneficiary.

   5008.5. The R.N. may provide an additional supervisory visit to each
   beneficiary if the situation warrants an additional visit, such as in the case
   of an assignment of a new personal care aide or change in the
   beneficiary&#8217;s health status.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 3957 (May 23, 2003); as amended
   by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1760, 1773 (March 2, 2012);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 15537 (November 8, 2013).
