                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS (§ 29-5006)

5006.1. PCA services shall be ordered, in writing, by a physician who has had
   a prior professional relationship with the beneficiary that included an
   examination(s) provided in a hospital, primary care physician’s office,
   nursing facility, or at the beneficiary’s home prior to the order for the
   personal care services. A written order for PCA services constitutes a
   certification that the beneficiary is unable to perform one (1) or more
   activities of daily living for which personal care services are needed.

   5006.2. A written order for PCA services issued in accordance with § 5006.1
   shall be renewed every six (6) months and after any interruption of service
   greater than fourteen (14) days, including hospital admission.

   5006.3. Each written order for PCA services under this section shall include
   the prescriber’s NPI number obtained from NPPES.

   5006.4. A Provider has an on-going responsibility to verify that each
   beneficiary that receives PCA services from the Provider has current
   eligibility for the District of Columbia Medicaid program and is eligible for
   and authorized to receive Personal Care Services.

   5006.5. An individual or family member other than a spouse, parent of a minor
   beneficiary, any other legally responsible relative, or court-appointed
   guardian may provide PCA services. Each family member providing PCA services
   shall comply with the requirements set forth in these rules.

   5006.6. The Provider shall initiate services no later than twenty-four (24)
   hours after completing the plan of care unless the beneficiary’s health or
   safety warrants the need for more immediate service initiation or the
   beneficiary or beneficiary&#8217;s representatives agree to begin the services
   at a later date.

   5006.7. PCA services shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    Performance of routine activities of daily living (such as, bathing,
   transferring, toileting, dressing, feeding, and maintaining bowel and bladder
   control);
   
   
   
   (b)	Assisting with incontinence, including bed pan use, changing urinary
   drainage bags, changing protective underwear, and monitoring urine input and
   output;
   
   (c)	Assisting beneficiaries with transfer, ambulation and range of motion
   exercises;
   
   
   
   (d)	Assisting beneficiaries with self-administered medications;
   
   
   
   (e)	Measuring and recording temperature, pulse, blood pressure and
   respiration;
   
   
   
   (f)	Observing, documenting and reporting the beneficiary&#8217;s physical
   condition, behavior, and appearance and reporting all services provided on a
   daily basis;
   
   
   
   (g)	Preparing meals in accordance with dietary guidelines and assistance with
   eating;
   
   
   
   (h)	Performing tasks related to keeping areas occupied by the beneficiary in a
   condition that promotes the beneficiary&#8217;s safety;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	Accompanying the beneficiary to medical or dental appointments or place of
   employment and recreational activities if approved in the beneficiary’s plan
   of care; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Recording and reporting to the supervisory health professional, changes in
   the beneficiary&#8217;s physical condition, behavior or appearance.

   5006.8. PCA services shall not include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Services that require the skills of a licensed professional as defined by the
   District of Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985, as amended,
   effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code §§ 3-1201.01 et
   seq.);
   
   
   
   
   
   Tasks usually performed by chore workers or homemakers, such as cleaning of
   areas not occupied by the beneficiary and shopping for items not used by the
   beneficiary; and
   
   
   
   
   
   Money management.

   5006.9. PCA services shall not be provided in a hospital, nursing facility,
   intermediate care facility, or other living arrangement which includes
   personal care as part of the reimbursed service.

   5006.10. PCA services may be provided at the beneficiary&#8217;s place of
   employment.

   5006.11. A PCA is not authorized to make decisions on behalf of a beneficiary.

   5006.12. A PCA shall immediately report to the R.N. any significant change in
   the beneficiary’s health status in the case of emergency, or within four (4)
   hours for other situations, unless indicated otherwise in the beneficiary’s
   plan of care.
   
   
   
   5006.13   	If the beneficiary seeks to change his or her Provider, the
   Provider shall assist the beneficiary in transferring to the new Provider.
   Until the beneficiary is transferred to a new personal care services Provider,
   the Provider shall continue providing personal care services to the
   beneficiary until the transfer has been completed successfully and the
   beneficiary is receiving personal care services from the new Provider.

   5006.14. Each Provider shall immediately terminate the services of a PCA and
   instruct the PCA to discontinue all services to the beneficiary, in any case
   where the Provider believes that the beneficiary’s physical or mental
   well-being is endangered by the care or lack of care provided by the aide, or
   that the beneficiary’s property is at risk. The Provider is responsible for
   assigning a new PCA and ensuring that the beneficiary’s needs continue to be
   met.
   
   
   
   5006.15  	Each Provider shall conduct annual performance assessments of all
   personal care aides who deliver services to beneficiaries served by the
   Provider, regardless of whether the personal care aide is an employee or is
   secured through another staffing agency. The initial performance assessment
   shall be conducted no later than three (3) months after the PCA first provides
   services to any beneficiary served by the Provider.
   
   
   
   5006.16   	Each Provider shall develop contingency staffing plans to provide
   coverage for each beneficiary in the event the assigned PCA cannot provide the
   services or is terminated.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 3957 (May 23, 2003); as amended
   by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1760, 1772 (March 2, 2012);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 15537 (November 8, 2013).
