                                  DC REGULATIONS

BENEFICIARY RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES (§ 29-5014)

5014.1. Each Provider shall develop a written statement of the beneficiary’s
   rights and responsibilities consistent with the requirements of this section,
   which shall be given to each beneficiary in advance of receiving services or
   during the initial care planning visit before the initiation of services.

   5014.2. The written statement of the beneficiary’s rights and
   responsibilities shall be prominently displayed at the Provider’s business
   location and available at no cost upon request by a member of the general
   public.

   5014.3. Each Provider shall develop and implement policies and procedures
   outlining the following beneficiary’s rights:
   
   (a)	To be treated with courtesy, dignity and respect;
   
   (b)	To control his or her own household and lifestyle;
   
   (c) 	To participate in the planning of his or her care and treatment;
   
   (d)	To receive treatment, care, and services consistent with the plan of care
   and to have the plan of care modified for achievement of outcomes;
   
   
   
   (e)	To receive services by competent personnel who can communicate with the
   beneficiary in accordance with the Language Access Act of 2004, effective June
   19, 2004 (D.C. Law 15-167; D.C. Official Code § 2-1931 et seq.);
   
   (f) 	To refuse all or part of any treatment, care, or service and be informed
   of the consequences;
   
   (g)	To be free from mental and physical abuse, neglect and exploitation from
   persons providing services;
   
   (h)	To be assured that for purposes of record confidentiality, the disclosure
   of the contents of the beneficiary&#8217;s records is subject to all the
   provisions of applicable District and federal laws;
   
   (i)	To voice a complaint or grievance about treatment, care, or lack of
   respect for personal property by persons providing services without fear of
   reprisal;
   
   (j)	To have access to his or her records; and
   
    (k) 	To be informed orally and in writing of the following:
   
   1)	Services to be provided, including any limits;
   
   2)	Amount charged for each service, the amount of payment required from the
   beneficiary and the billing procedures, if applicable;
   
   3)	Whether services are covered by health insurance, Medicare, Medicaid, or
   any other third party sources;
   
   4)	Acceptance, denial, reduction or termination of services;
   
   5)	Complaint and appeal procedures;
   
   6)	Name, address and telephone number of the Provider;
   
   7)	Telephone number of the District of Columbia Medicaid fraud hotline;
   
   8)	Beneficiary’s freedom from being forced to sign for services that were
   not provided or were unnecessary; and
   
   9)	A statement, provided by DHCF, defining health care fraud and ways to
   report suspected fraud.

   5014.4. Each beneficiary shall be responsible for the following:
   
   (a)	Treating all Provider personnel with respect and dignity;
   
   (b)	Providing accurate information when requested;
   
   (c)	Informing Provider personnel when instructions are not understood or
   cannot be followed;
   
   (d)		Cooperating in making a safe environment for care within the home; and
   
   (e)	Reporting suspected fraud, waste and abuse.

   5014.5. Each Provider shall take appropriate steps to ensure that each
   beneficiary, including beneficiaries who cannot read or those who have a
   language or communication barrier, has received the information required
   pursuant to this section. Each Provider shall document in the records the
   steps taken to ensure that each beneficiary has received the information.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 15537 (November 8, 2013).
