                                  DC REGULATIONS

FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS &#8211; PREPAID, CAPITATED PROVIDERS (§ 29-5303)

5303.1. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall ensure through its contracts,
   subcontracts, and any other appropriate manner that neither enrollees nor the
   District are held liable for debts of the prepaid, capitated provider in the
   event of the prepaid, capitated provider’s insolvency.

   5303.2. Each start up prepaid, capitated provider shall deposit into an escrow
   account, established and held in trust in a financial institution in the
   District for the sole purpose of holding such deposits, a surety bond, cash,
   securities, letters of credit, or an acceptable combination of these in an
   amount that shall be the greater of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Five percent (5%) of its estimated expenditures for health care services
   rendered to Medicaid recipients in its first year of operation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Twice its estimated average monthly uncovered expenditures for services
   rendered to Medicaid recipients in its first year of operation; or
   
   
   
   (c)	One -hundred thousand dollars ($100,000).

   5303.3. Each on-going prepaid, capitated provider shall deposit in an escrow
   account, established and held in trust in a financial institution in the
   District for the sole purpose of holding such deposits, a surety bond, cash,
   securities, letters of credit, or an acceptable combination of these in the
   following amounts:
   
   
   
   (a)	In the first year of operation, a deposit equal to the greater of a sum
   equal to one (1) month’s estimated expenditures or one -hundred thousand
   dollars ($100,000);
   
   
   
   (b)	In the second year of operation, a deposit equal to two percent (2%) of
   its estimated annual expenditures; and
   
   
   
   (c)	In the third and subsequent years of operation, a deposit equal to three
   percent (3%) of its annual expenditures for the year at issue.

   5303.4. For the purposes of §5303.3, the second and each subsequent year’s
   estimate shall be based on the prior year’s operating expenses and delivery
   arrangements.

   5303.5. The Department may require a prepaid, capitated provider to update its
   insolvency deposits on a quarterly basis if the organization is experiencing
   rapid growth and may order suspension of new Medicaid enrollments until the
   appropriate deposit is certified to the Department.

   5303.6. Except as specified in §5303.8, all income from deposits shall belong
   to the depositing organization and shall be paid to the depositing
   organization as the income becomes available.

   5303.7. Each provider agreement with a prepaid, capitated provider shall
   specifically delineate the procedures that will apply in the event of a
   default.

   5303.8. If a prepaid, capitated provider defaults, the Department may use the
   deposit to recover any capitation payments issued to the organization and to
   cover the cost of care for AFDC and AFDC -related Medicaid recipients enrolled
   in the prepaid, capitated provider’s plan until the AFDC and AFDC -related
   Medicaid recipients are assigned to another prepaid, capitated provider.

   5303.9. All funds held in escrow shall be invested only in securities or other
   investments permitted by District laws that govern the investment of assets
   that constitute the legal reserves of life insurance.

   5303.10. Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, each prepaid, capitated
   provider with a risk comprehensive or other risk contract shall obtain, at its
   own expense, reinsurance in the form of individual stop loss protection.

   5303.11. Any director, officer, employee, or partner of a prepaid, capitated
   provider who receives, collects, disburses, or invests funds in connection
   with the activities of the organization shall be responsible for the funds as
   a fiduciary of the prepaid, capitated provider.

   5303.12. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall maintain in force a fidelity
   bond in an amount not less than one-hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per
   person for each officer and employee who has a fiduciary responsibility or
   duty to the organization.

   5303.13. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall provide and maintain liability
   and malpractice insurance, as applicable, in an amount sufficient to cover all
   claims that may arise out of the organization’s operations under the terms
   of the Medicaid provider agreement and shall provide proof of insurance
   coverage to the Department upon application to provide managed care services
   to AFDC and AFDC -related Medicaid recipients. If any carrier of liability or
   malpractice insurance cancels a prepaid, capitated provider’s insurance, the
   prepaid, capitated provider shall send written notice of the cancellation to
   the Department within 24 hours of the insurer’s notice to the provider of
   its intent to cancel.

   5303.14. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall maintain unemployment
   compensation coverage and workers’ compensation insurance in accordance with
   applicable federal and District or State laws and regulations. If any carrier
   of unemployment or worker’s compensation insurance cancels the provider’s
   insurance, the prepaid, capitated provider shall send written notice of the
   cancellation to the Department within 24 hours of the insurer’s notice to
   the provider of its intent to cancel.

   5303.15. If a prepaid, capitated provider’s liability, malpractice,
   worker’s compensation or unemployment compensation insurance is canceled or
   lapses, the organization shall cease to provide any services to AFDC and
   AFDC-related Medicaid recipients until the insurance is reinstated or
   comparable insurance is purchased. The Department shall not pay any prepaid,
   capitated provider for any services provided to an AFDC or AFDC -related
   Medicaid recipient while the organization operates without insurance. If the
   Department does make a payment for services rendered while the prepaid,
   capitated provider operated without insurance, the organization shall
   reimburse the Department for the payments. The Department may adjust any
   future payments to the managed care provider or its successors to recover any
   payments made while the prepaid, capitated provider operated without
   insurance. The Department may also use the prepaid, capitated provider’s
   deposit to obtain coverage for AFDC or AFDC-related recipients while the
   prepaid, capitated provider is operating without the required insurance.

   5303.16. Prepaid, capitated providers operated by the District government are
   exempt from the financial and insurance requirements in this section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1566, 1568 (March 31, 1995).
