                                  DC REGULATIONS

AUDIT AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS (§ 29-5314)

5314.1. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall file a financial statement
   annually with the Department, which shall be certified by at least two (2)
   principal officers. The financial statement shall be filed with the Department
   not more than ninety (90) days after the close of the organization’s fiscal
   year.

   5314.2. The prepaid, capitated provider shall have the financial statement
   described in §5314.1 audited by an independent certified public account.

   5314.3. The audited financial statement shall clearly indicate total expenses
   and revenues and specify the expenses and revenues attributable to AFDC and
   AFDC-related Medicaid enrollees.

   5314.4. Upon the Department’s written request, the prepaid, capitated
   provider shall permit and assist the federal government or its agents, or the
   Department in the inspection and audit of any financial records of the
   provider or its subcontractors. The provider agreement shall require the
   provider’s and subcontractor’s records be available for inspection and
   audit by the Department.

   5314.5. Annual audit reports and records shall be retained by the prepaid,
   capitated provider for at least a five (5) year period.

   5314.6. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or other action
   involving the records described in this section is initiated before the
   expiration of the five (5) year period, the records shall be retained until
   completion of the action and final resolution of all issues that arise from
   the litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or other action, including any
   appeal and the expiration of any right of appeal, or until the end of the five
   (5) year period, whichever is later.

   5314.7. Each month, each prepaid, capitated provider shall submit reports of
   program utilization, costs, and other information necessary to assess the
   organization’s performance. The Department shall describe the content and
   format of these reports.

   5314.8. Each quarter, each prepaid, capitated provider shall submit a summary
   of program utilization in the format prescribed by the Department. This
   summary shall include the following information with respect to Medicaid
   eligible women and children:
   
   
   
   (a)	The number of member months in the quarter;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number of new enrollees;
   
   
   
   (c)	The number of persons disenrolled;
   
   
   
   (d)	The number of inpatient admissions and inpatient days incurred;
   
   
   
   (e)	The number of physician visits provided;
   
   
   
   (f)	The number of out-of-plan referrals; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The number of emergency room encounters.

   5314.9. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall prepare semiannual summaries of
   financial performance under its Medicaid managed care provider agreement that
   describes the total clinical expenditures incurred and assigned contribution
   to overhead.

   5314.10. The quarterly utilization summary and semiannual financial summary
   shall be submitted to the Department not later than ninety (90) days after the
   close of the quarter or the six (6) month semi-annual review period.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1566, 1584 (March 31, 1995).
