                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICE DELIVERY AND QUALITY ASSURANCE REQUIREMENTS GENERAL (§ 29-5307)

5307.1. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall provide each enrollee with high
   quality health care at locations that ensure reasonable availability and
   accessibility to enrollees.

   5307.2. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall provide either directly or by
   referral, each service in the Medicaid managed care benefits package,
   including patient management and referrals and approvals.

   5307.3. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall ensure that urgent and
   emergency medical care are available to AFDC and AFDC-related Medicaid
   enrollees on a twenty four (24) hour basis, seven (7) days a week, either
   through the prepaid, capitated provider or through other appropriate
   facilities.

   5307.4. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall conduct an orientation program
   to inform AFDC and AFDC-related recipients of available services and
   facilities.

   5307.5. Each AFDC and AFDC-related Medicaid recipient enrolled in a prepaid,
   capitated provider’s plan shall receive service through the same health care
   providers and facilities that serve non-AFDC and AFDC-related Medicaid
   enrollees.

   5307.6. Each AFDC and AFDC-related Medicaid enrollee shall be fully integrated
   into the prepaid, capitated provider’s plan membership and shall not be
   treated in a manner different from non-AFDC or AFDC-related Medicaid
   enrollees.

   5307.7. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall allow each enrollee, to the
   maximum extent feasible, the freedom to choose from among its participating
   providers of primary health care and shall notify the Department in writing of
   the primary health care provider to whom the AFDC or AFDC-related recipient is
   assigned by the end of the first month of enrollment and monthly for
   reassignments.

   5307.8. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall provide health education
   programs for its enrollees in languages understood by the population being
   served. The education programs shall include, at a minimum, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Information regarding the importance and availability of preventive care;
   
   
   
   (b)	Information regarding the importance and availability of childhood
   immunizations;
   
   
   
   (c)	Information regarding the importance of, right to, and procedure for
   scheduling the Early Periodic Screening, Diagnosis and Treatment (EPSDT)
   screens for children covered by Medicaid;
   
   
   
   (d)	Information on birth control and on the importance and availability of
   prenatal and well baby care;
   
   
   
   (e)	Information regarding proper nutrition for pregnant women and children;
   and
   
   
   
   (f)	Information regarding preventive and treatment measures for drug abuse and
   alcoholism.

   5307.9. The prepaid, capitated provider shall have a system of follow -up of
   patient care for enrollees with chronic and acute illnesses, including an
   appointment follow-up system for persons who do not appear for appointments.

   5307.10. Waiting times for appointments for AFDC and AFDC -related Medicaid
   enrollees shall not exceed the waiting times for non-AFDC or AFDC-related
   Medicaid enrollees of the prepaid, capitated provider.

   5307.11. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall maintain a current, unified
   medical record on each enrollee.

   5307.12. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall establish and maintain a
   quality assurance program to review the quality, appropriateness and
   timeliness of the services performed. The quality assurance program shall be
   approved by the Department in accordance with the requirements of §5307.13.

   5307.13. The prepaid, capitated provider’s quality assurance program shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be consistent with federal Medicaid utilization review and control
   regulations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide for review, by appropriate health care professionals, of the
   process followed in providing health services; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide for systematic data collection on performance, utilization and
   treatment outcomes.

   5307.14. The prepaid, capitated provider shall obtain accreditation through an
   external review by an independent quality accreditation organization such as
   the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) or
   the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). This process must begin
   within 12 months of entry into the D.C. Medicaid Managed Care Program and
   provisional accreditation must be received by the end of the third year of
   participation in the program.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1566, 1575 (March 31, 1995).
