                                  DC REGULATIONS

MARKETING (§ 29-5305)

5305.1. Each prepaid, capitated provider shall submit to the Department for
   its prior written approval all marketing plans, procedures, and materials
   including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Marketing policies and manuals;
   
   
   
   (b)	A written description of proposed marketing approaches;
   
   
   
   (c)	Marketing brochures and fliers;
   
   
   
   (d)	Advertising copy and public service announcements;
   
   
   
   (e)	Enrollment training guidelines;
   
   
   
   (f)	A written description of the basis on which marketing personnel will be
   compensated; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Nominal value marketing gifts.

   5305.2. No prepaid, capitated provider shall engage in any deceptive marketing
   practice that misleads, confuses, or defrauds an eligible enrollee or the
   Department.

   5305.3. Marketing materials distributed to Medicaid recipients for use in
   selecting a primary care provider, as defined in §5599, shall be clear and
   shall include at least the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement that enrollment in the prepaid, capitated provider’s plan is
   voluntary;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement that all necessary health care, except emergency care and
   services excluded under managed care, must be obtained through the prepaid,
   capitated provider;
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of the benefits package and excluded services;
   
   
   
   (d)	The days and hours of service;
   
   
   
   (e)	The address of each facility or service site;
   
   
   
   (f)	A description of the procedures to follow to receive services after hours;
   
   
   
   (g)	Telephone numbers to access emergency care services;
   
   
   
   (h)	A statement that disenrollment from the prepaid, capitated provider’s
   plan is subject to the limitations described in Chapter 55;
   
   
   
   (i)	A description of the prepaid, capitated provider’s grievance process,
   including methods for filing grievances and the right of a member to receive
   assistance from the personal representative of the member’s choice; and
   
   
   
   (j)	A statement of the member’s rights and responsibilities.

   5305.4. A prepaid, capitated provider shall not provide cash, gift incentives,
   or rebates to prospective enrollees.

   5305.5. A prepaid, capitated provider shall not claim or assert superior
   medical care or provider skills or make untruthful, misleading or deceptive
   statements regarding the merits of its plan.

   5305.6. A prepaid, capitated provider shall not compensate marketing
   representatives based on commissions or other incentives that are based upon
   the number of new AFDC or AFDC-related Medicaid recipients enrolled.

   5305.7. Each eligible AFDC and AFDC-related Medicaid recipient in the category
   or categories covered under the managed care provider agreement shall be
   considered a potential enrollee and may not be discriminated against on the
   basis of health status or need for health care services.

   5305.8. Prepaid, capitated providers shall not solicit AFDC or AFDC -related
   Medicaid recipients already enrolled in another prepaid, capitated
   provider’s plan, except during the period of open enrollment.

   5305.9. No prepaid, capitated provider shall represent to an AFDC or
   AFDC-related Medicaid recipient that he or she is required to enroll in the
   prepaid, capitated provider’s plan.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1566, 1573 (March 31, 1995).
