                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUBCONTRACTS (§ 29-5313)

5313.1. Each subcontract entered into by each prepaid, capitated provider for
   services covered by the organization’s Medicaid managed care provider
   agreement shall be submitted to the Department for approval prior to the
   execution of the subcontract.

   5313.2. No subcontract shall terminate the legal obligation of the prepaid,
   capitated provider to ensure that all activities carried out by the
   subcontractor conform to the provisions of the prepaid, capitated provider’s
   Medicaid managed care provider agreement. Subject to these conditions, any
   service or function required to be provided by the prepaid, capitated provider
   may be subcontracted to a qualified organization or person.

   5313.3. The Department shall notify the prepaid, capitated provider, in
   writing, of its approval or disapproval of the proposed subcontract within
   fifteen (15) business days of receipt of the proposed subcontract and
   supporting documentation required by the Department. The Department shall
   specify the reasons for any disapproval, which shall be based only on District
   or Federal law or regulations. A managed care provider may not directly or
   indirectly restrict a subcontractor from engaging in business with other
   providers of Medicaid services.

   5313.4. Failure to notify the prepaid capitated provider of the approval or
   disapproval of the proposed subcontract within the fifteen (15) day time limit
   mentioned in §5313.3 shall be construed as approval of the proposed
   subcontract.

   5313.5. If a prepaid, capitated provider executes a subcontract for services
   covered by the organization’s Medicaid managed care provider agreement
   without the prior written approval of the Department, the Department may
   terminate the prepaid, capitated provider’s Medicaid managed care provider
   agreement in accordance with the procedures of §5320.

   5313.6. The Department may require the prepaid, capitated provider to furnish
   additional information relating to the ownership of the subcontractor, the
   subcontractor’s ability to carry out the proposed obligations under the
   subcontract, and the procedures to be followed by the prepaid, capitated
   provider to monitor the execution of the subcontract.

   5313.7. Subject to the provisions of §5313.1, a prepaid, capitated provider
   may enter into a subcontract with a health care provider who is not enrolled
   in the Medicaid program but who otherwise meets all other federal and District
   requirements for participation in the Medicaid program.

   5313.8. A prepaid, capitated provider shall not enter into a subcontract for
   Medicaid services with a health care provider who has been convicted of any
   crime or who has been the subject of any sanction described in §1128 of the
   Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a -7). The Department shall not reimburse a
   prepaid, capitated provider for any services provided to a Medicaid recipient
   by a subcontractor who has been convicted of a crime or the subject of a
   sanction described in §1128 of the Social Security Act.

   5313.9. Except as provided in §5301.2, a prepaid, capitated provider shall
   not enter into a subcontract with a hospital located outside the District to
   provide inpatient hospital services to District AFDC and AFDC-related Medicaid
   recipients.

   5313.10. Each subcontract shall be in writing and shall contain, at a minimum,
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Information identifying each party, including the name, address and type
   of organization;
   
   
   
   (b)	The legal basis for operating as a health care provider in the District,
   including licenses, accreditation, certificates of operation, and
   registration;
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of services to be provided or other activities to be
   performed by the subcontractor in a form that permits the Department to
   definitively determine the nature and scope of the Medicaid obligations that
   have been subcontracted;
   
   
   
   (d)	An agreement that financial and programmatic information, records, and
   data collected and maintained by the subcontractor that relate to the AFDC and
   AFDC-related Medicaid recipients and/or services provided to them shall be
   made available to the prepaid, capitated provider and the Department for
   inspection.
   
   
   
   (e)	An agreement that the subcontractor shall look solely to the prepaid,
   capitated provider for compensation for services provided to enrollees in the
   District’s AFDC and AFDC-related Medicaid Managed Care Program;
   
   
   
   (f)	A description of the payment methodology to be utilized to reimburse the
   subcontractor;
   
   
   
   (g)	Assurances of appropriate professional liability coverage;
   
   
   
   (h)	Assurances that the subcontractor shall comply with all applicable
   provisions of District and federal law and regulations pertaining to Title XIX
   of the Social Security Act and all District and federal laws and regulations
   applicable to the service or activity covered by the subcontract;
   
   
   
   (i)	An agreement that the subcontractor shall submit encounter data to the
   prepaid, capitated provider; and
   
   
   
   (j)	If the subcontract is subject to assignment, an agreement that no
   assignment shall take effect without prior written approval from the
   Department.

   5313.11. The prepaid, capitated provider shall notify the Department, in
   writing, of the termination of any subcontract and any arrangements made to
   ensure continuation of the services covered by the terminated subcontract not
   less than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of the termination.

   5313.12. If the Department determines that the termination or expiration of a
   subcontract materially affects the ability of the prepaid, capitated provider
   to carry out its responsibility under its Medicaid managed care provider
   agreement, the Department may terminate the Medicaid managed care provider
   agreement.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1566, 1581 (March 31, 1995).
