                                  DC REGULATIONS

UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS FRANCHISE TAX EXEMPTION (§ 9-1108)

1108.1. A QHTC that is not a corporation is exempt from the unincorporated
   business franchise tax. A QHTC that is not a corporation may claim a partial
   refund of its retraining costs as provided by D.C. Official Code § 47-1817 by
   timely filing a Claim for Refund-QHTC Retraining Cost, Form FP-332. A QHTC
   that is not a corporation may claim the sales and personal property tax
   benefits provided by the Act as well as the real property benefits of Title
   III of the Act.

   1108.2. The following are examples of the application of § 1108.1:
   
   
   
   (a)	Company F, a Certified QHTC, is a limited liability company that has
   elected for Federal tax purposes to be taxed as a partnership. D.C. Official
   Code § 47-1808.1(5) provides that Company F is exempt from the unincorporated
   business franchise tax. The partnership QHTC will file a District information
   income tax return, Form D-65, and the partnership income will flow through to
   the partners. The partners who are residents of the District will report their
   prorated partnership income on their District individual income tax returns,
   Form D-40. The partners who are not residents of the District will report
   their prorated partnership income on their individual income tax returns in
   the state in which they are a resident.
   
   (b)	Company F, a Certified QHTC, is a limited liability company that has
   elected for Federal tax purposes to be taxed as a corporation. The statute
   provides that Company F is entitled to reduce its corporate franchise tax
   liability by the credits provided by Title II and IV of the Act, &#8211; the
   credit for reduction in the corporation tax rate, the relocation credit, the
   wage credit and the retraining credit. Also, Company F can claim the sales and
   personal property tax benefits provided by the Act as well as the real
   property benefits of Title Ⅲ of the Act.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2142 (March 8, 2002).
