                                  DC REGULATIONS

REAL PROPERTY TAX ABATEMENT FOR CERTAIN COMMERICAL PROPERTIES (ยง 9-1115)

1115.1. For a real property owner, the real property tax attributable to the
   increase in the assessed value for (a) and/or (b), below, shall be abated for
   5 years if the owner:
   
   
   
   (a)	Constructs a new eligible building for a QHTC and the initial or temporary
   certificate of occupancy was received after December 31, 2000; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Improves or renovates an existing eligible building or a portion of an
   existing building which is necessary to adapt or to convert for use by a QHTC.
   
   
   
   (c)	In order to qualify for the abatement under this section, a QHTC must
   apply to the Real Property Administration of OTR on or before the first day of
   the real property tax year (that begins October 1) of the tax year for which
   the QHTC seeks the abatement.

   1115.2. For the tenant who is liable for the real property tax, the real
   property tax attributable to the increase in the assessed value shall be
   abated for 5 years. The abatement applies where the tenant makes improvements
   or renovations to an existing eligible building or a portion of an existing
   eligible building which are necessary to adapt or to convert for use by:
   
   
   
   (a)	The tenant who is a QHTC; or
   
   
   
   (b)	A subtenant who is a QHTC.

   1115.3. The amount of an abatement under this section will appear on the real
   property tax bill as a credit. If a tenant is liable for real property taxes
   under a lease, it will be solely the responsibility of the owner/landlord to
   transfer the benefits under this section to the tenant. There shall be no
   recourse by the tenant against the District for the failure of the
   owner/landlord to make the transfer of benefits.

   1115.4. If a lease for real property for an eligible building that is used by
   a QHTC is terminated during the 5-year abatement period, the abatement will
   remain in effect for twelve months or less if the owner or tenant makes a good
   faith effort to lease the real property to a QHTC.

   1115.5. The abatement period for the real property shall not exceed 5 years
   from the first day of the month following the rent commencement date. For
   purposes of this section, the rent commencement date shall be the earlier of
   the date an initial certificate of occupancy is issued for, or a person takes
   possession or renews possession of, the improvement or renovation (made under
   this section) of any part of the real property.

   1115.6. On or after the rent commencement date, the abatement shall be the
   increase in real property tax attributable to the improvements or renovations
   made under this section as such improvements or renovations are valued by the
   Deputy Chief Financial Officer as of the rent commencement date.

   1115.7. The annual income expense statement filed by the owner shall be deemed
   the real property tax return for purposes of this section. Each year, the
   person filing the income expense statement shall attach thereto a copy of the
   Form QHTC-CERT from each tenant. The person filing such statement shall
   indicate the rent commencement date, as defined in section 1115.5. The person
   filing such statement shall state thereon the square, suffix, and lot of the
   real property.

   1115.8. The abatement will be revoked immediately if the owner or tenant
   leases the real property to a tenant who is not a QHTC, which causes the
   building to become no longer an eligible building.

   1115.9. The owner shall immediately provide written notice to the Deputy Chief
   Financial Officer, when the real property becomes ineligible. The owner shall
   state the square, suffix, and lot on the written notice as well as the date of
   ineligibility.

   1115.10. The Board of Real Property Assessments and Appeals, or the Superior
   Court of the District of Columbia, shall, when rendering a decision, make
   allocation to the renovations or improvements made under this section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2142 (March 8, 2002).
