                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 16-299)

299.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   1901 Act &#8211; Sections 1178, 1179 and 1180 of the Act of March 1, 1901, (31
   Stat. 1377, ch. 854) as amended.
   
   
   
   1913 Act &#8211; the Act of February 4, 1913, (37 Stat. 657, ch. 26) as
   amended.
   
   
   
   Actual amount of the loan &#8211; the principal amount of money owed by a
   borrower at any given time, exclusive of interest.
   
   
   
   Borrower &#8211; any person whose absolute promise to repay a loan of money
   was affected.
   
   Comparable evidence of an insurance policy &#8211; a statement typewritten or
   printed in type as large as brevier or 8- point type, setting forth all
   information necessary to the exercise by the borrower of every right afforded
   under the terms of the insurance policy, as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the insurance company and its address;
   
   
   
   (b)	The address of the local office of the insurance company, if any;
   
   
   
   (c)	The number of the policy;
   
   
   
   (d)	The date and hour on which the policy takes effect and the date and hour
   on which the policy terminates;
   
   
   
   (e)	The amount of the premium;
   
   
   
   (f)	The kind or kinds of insurance included in the policy;
   
   
   
   (g)	Any limitation pertaining to the insurance;
   
   
   
   (h)	The provisions for cancellation; and
   
   
   
   (i)	The procedure to be followed by the borrower in the making of any claim
   under the policy.
   
   
   
   Engaged in the business of loaning money &#8211; the holding out in the
   District of Columbia, by the maintenance of a place of business in the
   District of Columbia or in any other manner, that a loan or loans of money may
   be effected by or through the person so holding out, plus the performance in
   the District of Columbia by that person of one or more acts which result in
   the making or in the collection of a loan of money.
   
   
   
   Loan of money &#8211; each transaction, whatever its form and however
   designated, which is in truth the borrowing and lending of money, including
   every transaction, the substance of which is the advance, directly or
   indirectly, by a lender to a borrower, of any sum of money upon an absolute
   promise to repay, irrespective of whether the money advanced is the property
   of the lender or the creditor.
   
   
   
   Interest &#8211; shall include, in addition to any sum of money charged or
   paid as compensation for the use of money, all expenses, demands, and services
   of every character, notarial fees, recording fees, and every other fee and
   charge except:
   
   
   
   (a)	Premiums on insurance specifically authorized by this chapter shall be
   included as interest if the obtaining by the borrower of the insurance is a
   prerequisite for the making of the loan. Insurance, all or any part of the
   premium or commission on which insures directly or indirectly to the benefit
   of the licensee, or to the benefit of any person having any direct or indirect
   interest in the business of such license, shall be deemed to have been
   required by the licensee, unless the licensee shall satisfy the Director that
   the insurance in fact was not so required and that the borrower could not
   reasonably have believed that it was required;
   
   
   
   (b)	On a loan of money the actual amount of which is in excess of two hundred
   dollars ($ 200), notary fees authorized by law for notarization of the
   instrument of security and for the certificate of the licensee required by
   this chapter, and the charge made by the Recorder for recording the instrument
   of security; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Upon the foreclosure of the security for a loan of money charges for
   attorney&#8217;s and agent&#8217;s fees which do not exceed ten percent (10%)
   of the actual amount of the loan found due in the foreclosure proceeding, plus
   such fees and charges as are reasonable and necessary expenses incurred for
   the liquidation of the loan.
   
   
   
   Licensee &#8211; a person to whom the government of the District of Columbia
   has granted a Class A or Class B Money Lender&#8217;s License.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; shall include an individual, a firm, a partnership, a
   joint-stock company, a corporation, an association, an incorporated society, a
   statutory or common-law trust, an estate, an executor, an administrator, a
   receiver, a trustee, a conservator, a liquidator, a committee, an assignee, an
   officer, an employee, a principal or an agent.
   
   
   
   Repossess and repossession &#8211; shall include every act, other than an act
   performed under authority of process issuing out of a court of competent
   jurisdiction, which contributes to or results in obtaining physical possession
   of tangible personal property which is collateral security for a loan of money
   for the purpose of liquidating the loan in whole or in part.
