                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR LICENSE (ยง 16-202)

202.1. In addition to the requirements of ยง 2 of the 1913 Act, as amended
   (D.C. Code ยง 26-702 (1981 Ed.)), each application for a money lender&#8217;s
   license shall include the verified signature under oath and the true and
   lawful name of the applicant if an individual, or each member of a firm or
   association applicant, or the president or other executive officer of a
   corporate application.

   202.2. In the case of a corporate applicant, there shall be furnished with the
   application a list, sworn to by the secretary of the corporation, stating the
   name of each person owning stock of the corporation together with the class
   and number of shares of stock owned by each such person.

   202.3. If ten percent (10%) or more of any class of stock of a corporate
   applicant is owned by another corporation, the application shall include (for
   each such other corporation) a list sworn to by the secretary of the other
   corporation of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The names and addresses of all persons owning ten percent (10%) or more of
   any class of stock of the other corporation;
   
   
   
   (b)	The names and addresses of the officers and directors of the other
   corporation; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The date and place of incorporation of the other corporation.

   202.4. Bond, as required by the 1913 Act (D.C. Code ยง 26-702 (1981 Ed.)),
   shall be filed with the application.

   202.5. With each application for license there shall be filed under the oath
   of the applicant (if an individual, or of a member of a firm or association
   applicant, or of the secretary of a corporate applicant) a list of names and
   addresses of each person engaged in the business of insurance, or in the
   business of loaning money, or in the business of dealing in new or used motor
   vehicles or other chattels which, or liens on or interest in which, are
   acceptable to the applicant as collateral security for a loan of money, in
   which business(es) the individual applicant (or any member of a firm or
   association applicant; or any stockholder, officer, or director of the
   corporate applicant) has an interest.

   202.6. Each applicant shall file with the application a list of any and all
   insurance agents&#8217; or brokers&#8217; licenses, notary public commissions,
   or any other licenses or commissions issued by the District to engage in any
   business, profession, or calling which are held by the individual applicant
   (or any member of a firm or association applicant, or any director or officer
   of a corporate applicant), and any employee of the applicant, together with
   the name of each person holding such a license or commission.
