                                  DC REGULATIONS

INSURANCE (ยง 16-207)

207.1. A licensee may require a borrower to pay the premium on insurance
   authorized by this section, but not otherwise.

   207.2. A copy of the policy of insurance on which the premium is required by
   the licensee to be paid by the borrower shall be delivered by the licensee to
   the borrower within twenty (20) days after the making of the loan.

   207.3. In no case shall life insurance be required in cases in which property
   is accepted as collateral security for a loan of money.

   207.4. No amount of money shall be charged or received by the licensee as
   premium on any policy of insurance unless the following is done:
   
   
   
   (a)	The evidence in writing of the loan of money describes each kind of
   insurance required by the licensee and states separately the term and premiums
   applicable to the insurance;
   
   
   
   (b)	An insurance policy or comparable evidence of a policy conforming to the
   term, description, and premiums set forth in the evidence of indebtedness has
   been furnished to the borrower prior to the date when any payment under that
   evidence of indebtedness is required to be made; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Prior to the date when the first payment under the evidence of
   indebtedness is required to be made, the licensee has furnished to the
   borrower an official receipt of the insurance company or its authorized
   representative, showing payment by the licensee to the insurance company on
   account or premium on the policy issued to the borrower of an amount not less
   than the amount of the premium set forth in said evidence of indebtedness.

   207.5. In the case of a policy of insurance issued on an automatic renewal
   basis for a term less than the term of the loan, the amount of premium which
   may be included in the evidence of indebtedness shall not exceed the premium
   on that policy for one policy period.

   207.6. If there is no collateral security for a loan of money, a reducing form
   of term life insurance on the life of the borrower in an amount not exceeding
   the actual amount of the loan for a term not exceeding the term of the loan
   may be required by the licensee.

   207.7. If a loan of money be made upon the collateral security of household
   furniture and furnishings, fire and extended coverage insurance for a term not
   exceeding the term of the loan in an amount not exceeding the fair market
   value of the collateral security property at the time policy is issued,
   payable to licensee and borrower as their interests may appear, may be
   required by the licensee.

   207.8. If a loan of money be made upon the collateral security of a vehicle,
   fifty dollars, seventy-five dollars, or one hundred dollars ($ 50, $ 75, or $
   100) deductible collision, as well as fire and theft insurance (or
   comprehensive in lieu of fire and theft) for a term that does not exceed the
   term of the loan payable to the licensee and the borrower as their interests
   may appear, may be required by the licensee.
