                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPOSSESSION (§ 16-208)

208.1. No person, except a licensee or the authorized agent of a licensee
   acting under or by virtue or a right or authority contained in the evidence of
   indebtedness of, or instrument of security for, a loan of money made by that
   licensee, shall repossess within the District of Columbia property which was
   accepted as collateral security for a loan of money.

   208.2. No person shall repossess, seize, or participate in any manner in the
   physical repossession or seizure of personal property offered as collateral
   security for a loan of money without first having three (3) sets of his or her
   fingerprints taken by the Metropolitan Police Department and filing the same
   with the Director or the Director&#8217;s designee.

   208.3. In the case of the repossession of property which was accepted as
   collateral security for a loan of money, it shall be the duty of the licensee
   for whose account the property was repossessed to give four (4) days written
   notice to the borrower by registered mail of each of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The proposed date, time, and place of the sale or other disposition of the
   property;
   
   
   
   (b)	The actual amount of the loan and other charges due; and
   
   
   
   (c)	That the borrower may, within the four (4) day notice period, redeem the
   property by paying to the licensee the actual amount of the loan and lawful
   charges authorized by this chapter.

   208.4. If the borrower fails to redeem the property under § 208.3(c), unless
   the period of redemption is extended by the licensee, the licensee shall
   effect the cancellation of any insurance on the property for which the premium
   has been paid by the borrower.

   208.5. Upon cancellation of an insurance policy under § 208.4, the licensee
   shall ascertain the amount of unearned premium to be refunded by the insurance
   company, and shall apply the amount of that refund to the actual amount of the
   loan and charges authorized by this chapter.

   208.6. If the borrower fails to redeem the property under § 208.3(c), the
   licensee shall sell or dispose of (or cause the sale or disposition of) the
   property at a price not less than the highest current market value of the
   property at the time of sale or disposition.

   208.7. Within ten (10) days after the sale or disposition of the property
   under this section, the licensee shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Apply the proceeds of the sale or disposition of the property to payment
   of the actual amount of the loan and lawful charges authorized by this
   chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Remit to the borrower any balance; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Deliver the note or other evidence of indebtedness to the borrower marked
   &#8220;PAID AND CANCELLED,&#8221; along with a release of any evidence of
   indebtedness or instrument of security for the loan.

   208.8. If the price paid for property at sale or disposition is less than the
   total actual amount of the loan (plus lawful charges authorized under this
   chapter), the note or other evidence of indebtedness of the borrower shall be
   endorsed by the licensee to show curtailment of the actual amount of the loan
   in an amount equal to the sale or disposition price less lawful charges
   authorized by this chapter.

   208.9. Within five (5) days after the sale or disposition of the property, the
   licensee shall deliver to the borrower a full account giving the date, time,
   and place of the sale, the price for which the property was sold or disposed
   of, an itemized statement of expenses incident to the sale or disposition, and
   the name of the person to whom the property was sold or transferred.

   208.10. The licensee shall deliver a copy of the information provided to the
   borrower under § 208.9 to the Director or the Director&#8217;s designee.

   208.11. Whenever within the knowledge of the licensee in the repossession of
   collateral security, property other than the collateral is taken, it shall be
   the duty of the person secured by the instrument granting or purporting to
   grant authority for the repossession to tender delivery of the other property,
   in the same condition as it was at the time of the taking, to the person from
   whom that other property was taken, within forty-eight (48) hours after the
   taking.

   208.12. Each licensee shall make all repairs to repossessed property which
   will be compensated by the insurance covering the property at the time of
   repossession.
