                                  DC REGULATIONS

DUTIES OF LICENSEES TO BORROWERS (ยง 16-205)

205.1. In addition to the duties imposed upon Class A licensees by the 1913
   Act, Class A and Class B licensees shall deliver the following to each
   borrower at the time the loan of money is made:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement in writing showing in clear and distinct terms the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The actual amount of the loan;
   
   
   
   (2)	The date on which the loan is made;
   
   
   
   (3)	The terms of repayment of the loan, including the total number of
   installments and the amount of each installment, and listing as separate items
   principal, interest, insurance premiums, and each other charge included in the
   actual amount of the loan; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A copy of each writing relating to the loan and to the security for the
   loan which expresses any part of the obligations of the borrower to the lender
   or licensee or to any other person with respect to the loan and of the
   obligations of the lender or licensee or of any other person to the borrower
   with respect to the loan. If any of the original writing bears the signature
   of the borrower, the copy must be in the precise form as was the original at
   the time it was signed by the borrower.

   205.2. A licensee shall deliver to each borrower a complete and legible
   receipt for each payment made on account of a loan of money at the time the
   payment is made.

   205.3. Each receipt delivered pursuant to ยง 205.2 shall show the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The date and total amount of the payment; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The actual amount of the loan after receipt of the payment.

   205.4. Upon payment in full of the actual amount of the loan and of all lawful
   charges on the loan, a licensee shall give the borrower a receipt showing
   payment in full of the loan.

   205.5. Within ten (10) days of the payment in full, a licensee shall endorse,
   over the signature of the licensee (or of the member or officer of the
   licensee) the words &#8220;PAID IN FULL&#8221; upon the original note, and
   deliver to the borrower every original note and a release of the instrument of
   security.
