                                  DC REGULATIONS

TRANSACTION REGISTER (ยง 16-210)

210.1. Each licensee shall keep and maintain in his office or place of
   business a register, as required by ยง 4 of the 1913 Act, and each licensee
   shall enter in the register the data required by the Act.

   210.2. The register shall be maintained from day to day as each transaction is
   entered into between the license and the borrower.

   210.3. The register shall be a book of original entry.

   210.4. In addition, every licensee shall enter the following information in
   the transaction register with respect to each loan:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of every person from whom any fee or commission, by
   whatever name designated, was paid or agreed to be paid by the licensee in
   connection with such loan, and the amount of such fee, or commission so paid
   or agreed to be paid;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of any property accepted as collateral security for the loan
   and in case such property be a motor vehicle, the manufacturers&#8217; name,
   and the year, model and motor number thereof;
   
   
   
   (c)	The perils insured against, and the amount and conditions of the policy of
   insurance against each such peril, the premium on which is included in the
   amount of the loan;
   
   
   
   (d)	The names and addresses of the companies issuing such insurance;
   
   
   
   (e)	The names of the brokers or agents by whom such insurance was written;
   
   
   
   (f)	The premiums charged on such insurance; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The term of the loan.

   210.5. The register shall be kept numerically by numbers of loans in the order
   made and each entry shall have a proper column separating each item required
   to be shown under this chapter.

   210.6. The same number assigned under ยง 210.5 shall appear on the
   borrower&#8217;s payment or receipt book and shall also appear in all other
   records pertaining to the loan required to be kept by the licensee under this
   chapter.
