                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPORTS OF NURSE AIDE ABUSE, NEGLECT OR MISAPPROPRIATION OF PROPERTY (ยง
29-3252)

3252.1. Each facility shall promptly notify the Department verbally of any
   alleged incident involving abuse or neglect of residents or misappropriation
   of residents&#8217; property by a nurse aide. The verbal notification shall
   include at least the name of the nurse aide and resident(s), and a description
   of the incident.

   3252.2. The facility shall submit to the Department written notice of the
   incident as soon as possible, but no later than seventy-two (72) hours after
   its occurrence.

   3252.3. The written notice shall contain the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Full name of nurse aide;
   
   
   
   (b)	Last known address, including telephone number;
   
   
   
   (c)	Social security number;
   
   
   
   (d)	Place of employment;
   
   
   
   (e)	Name, address and telephone number of person listed as emergency contact
   in employment records;
   
   
   
   (f)	Any know aliases;
   
   
   
   (g)	Certification numbers, if applicable;
   
   
   
   (h)	Race, sex, physical description, and date of birth, for identification
   purposes only; and
   
   
   
   (i)	A description of the incident including the names and location of the
   resident(s) and staff involved.

   3252.4. The Department shall investigate the incident as soon as possible, but
   no later than seventy-two (72) hours after receipt of the verbal notification.
   The investigation shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Interviews with the resident(s) and nurse aide, if possible;
   
   
   
   (b)	Review of the resident&#8217;s record and other facility documents;
   
   
   
   (c)	Review of the nurse aide&#8217;s employment record; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Interviews with facility staff.

   3252.5. The Department shall refer allegations of criminal conduct to the
   Metropolitan Police Department for investigation. The Department shall
   coordinate with the Metropolitan Police Department until the allegations are
   resolved.

   3252.6. The Department shall notify each nurse aide against whom allegations
   of misconduct have been made of the proposed findings from the investigation,
   and shall provide the nurse aide with an opportunity for a hearing to rebut
   the evidence that substantiates the allegations.

   3252.7. The notification to the nurse aide from the Department shall contain
   the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the allegations made against the nurse aide;
   
   
   
   (b)	The proposed findings resulting from the investigation;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement that the nurse aide has a right to request a hearing, in order
   to challenge the charges against him or her, by submitting a written request
   within twenty (20) days of the date of service of the notice on a prescribed
   form;
   
   
   
   (d)	Notification that his or her name will be listed in the Nurse Aide Abuse
   Registry, as having knowingly abused or neglected a resident or
   misappropriated a resident&#8217;s property while providing services in a
   facility, unless the nurse aide requests a hearing and disproves the charges
   against him or her;
   
   
   
   (e)	The consequences to the nurse aide of being listed in the Nurse Aide Abuse
   Registry;
   
   
   
   (f)	A copy of the Request for Hearing Form; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Notification that, in lieu of requesting a hearing, the nurse aide has a
   right to submit a written rebuttal to the proposed findings, which will be
   made a part of the entry in the Nurse Aide Abuse Registry, together with the
   findings of abuse.

   3252.8. The Department shall serve the notice upon the nurse aide by personal
   delivery; by leaving it at the nurse aide&#8217;s usual residence with a
   person of suitable discretion at least sixteen (16) years of age residing
   there; or by sending the notice to the nurse aide via certified mail and
   regular mail to the last known address of the nurse aide reported to the
   Department pursuant to subsection 3250.3.

   3252.9. The Department shall maintain a copy of the notice, along with the
   certificate of the serving party or a copy of the stamped certified mail
   receipt, in its files.

   3252.10. Proof of service may be shown by the certificate of the serving party
   in the case of personal service, or by a return receipt if service is made by
   certified mail. If the nurse aide is no longer at the last known address shown
   by the records of the Department, and no forwarding address is available,
   service shall be deemed to have been made on the date the return receipt
   bearing that notification is received by the Director.

   3252.11. If the charges against the nurse aide are substantiated through the
   hearing process, or if the nurse aide waives his or her right to a hearing,
   the Department shall record the individual&#8217;s name in the Nurse Aide
   Abuse Registry. The entry shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Documentation of the Department&#8217;s investigation, including the
   nature of the allegations, the evidence that led to the findings, and the
   specific findings against the nurse aide;
   
   
   
   (b)	The date of the hearing and its outcome; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A summary of the written rebuttal statement of the nurse aide, if he or
   she disputed the findings.

   3252.12. When the conduct of a nurse aide is recorded in the Nurse Aide Abuse
   Registry, the Department shall send the name of the nurse aide to all
   administrators of nursing homes in the District of Columbia, along with:
   
   
   
   (a)	A copy of the hearing decision, if a hearing was held; or
   
   
   
   (b)	A copy of the Department&#8217;s investigative findings and any rebuttal
   statement filed by the nurse aide, if the nurse aide waived the right to a
   hearing.

   3252.13. Information sent to nursing home administrators pursuant to
   subsection 3252.12 shall be sanitized to ensure resident confidentiality.

   3252.14. The Department shall also place the names of nurse aides convicted in
   the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for abuse, neglect or
   mistreatment of residents in the Nurse Aide Abuse Registry, along with the
   dates of their convictions.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking Published at 38 DCR 2023 (April 5, 1991); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking Published at 49 DCR 3696 (April 19, 2002).
