                                  DC REGULATIONS

INSTRUCTOR QUALIFICATIONS (ยง 29-3206)

3206.1. Each nurse aide training program shall have a sufficient number of
   qualified instructors to meet the purposes and objectives of the nurse aide
   training program.

   3206.2. The training of nurse aides shall be performed by or under the general
   supervision of a registered nurse who meets the following minimum
   qualifications:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is licensed as a registered nurse in the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	Has at least one (1) year of teaching experience; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Has at least two (2) years of nursing experience, one of which shall be in
   the provision of long term care.

   3206.3. In nursing facility-based programs, the training of nurse aides shall
   be performed by or under the general supervision of the director of nursing
   for the facility.

   3206.4. Qualified personnel from the health care team may serve as
   supplemental instructors to the instructor. These health professionals may
   include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Registered nurses;
   
   
   
   (b)	Licensed practical nurses;
   
   
   
   (c)	Pharmacists;
   
   
   
   (d)	Dieticians;
   
   
   
   (e)	Social workers;
   
   
   
   (f)	Sanitarians;
   
   
   
   (g)	Fire safety experts;
   
   
   
   (h)	Nursing home administrators;
   
   
   
   (i)	Gerontologists;
   
   
   
   (j)	Psychologists;
   
   
   
   (k)	Physical and occupational therapists;
   
   
   
   (l)	Activities specialists;
   
   
   
   (m)	Speech, hearing, or language therapists;
   
   
   
   (n)	Resident rights experts;
   
   
   
   (o)	Physicians; and
   
   
   
   (p)	Credentialed nurse aides.

   3206.5. Each health professional instructor shall have a minimum of two (2)
   years of current experience in caring for the elderly or chronically ill.

   3206.6. Each instructor shall be, where applicable, licensed, registered, or
   certified in his or her profession in the District of Columbia.

   3206.7. The ratio of instructors to trainees in clinical areas involving
   direct care of patients or clients shall be based upon patient acuity level,
   skill level of the trainee, and the clinical setting. The ratio shall not
   exceed one (1) instructor to ten (10) nurse aide trainees.

   3206.8. Each instructor&#8217;s qualifications shall be documented in the
   official records of the program and available for review by the LTCA.

   3206.9. Each instructor shall be responsible for doing the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Assisting in the development, implementation, and evaluation of the
   purpose, philosophy, and objective of the nurse aide training program;
   
   
   
   (b)	Helping to implement and evaluate the curriculum;
   
   
   
   (c)	Facilitating student participation in the program and evaluating the
   progress and retention of students in the program;
   
   
   
   (d)	Giving guidance to students;
   
   
   
   (e)	Evaluating student achievement in the program;
   
   
   
   (f)	Providing for student and peer evaluation of his or her teaching
   effectiveness; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Participating in continuing nursing education programs to improve his or
   her own competence in areas of responsibilities.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 38 DCR 2008 (April 5, 1991).
