                                  DC REGULATIONS

VENTILATOR CARE DISCHARGE (ยง 29-6510)

6510.1. Each provider shall ensure that residents are weaned from the
   ventilator when weaning is determined to be medically appropriate.

   6510.2. A provider shall discontinue weaning and resume mechanical ventilation
   if the resident experiences any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Blood pressure elevation of more than 20 mmHg Systolic or more than 10
   mmHg diastolic;
   
   
   
   (b)	Heart rate of more than 10% above the baseline or a heart rate of 120
   beats per minute;
   
   
   
   (c)	Respiratory rate increase of more than 10 breaths per minute or a rate
   above 30 breaths per minute;
   
   
   
   (d)	Arrhythmias;
   
   
   
   (e)	Reduced tidal volume;
   
   
   
   (f)	Elevated partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide;
   
   
   
   (g)	Extreme anxiety;
   
   
   
   (h)	Dyspnea; or
   
   
   
   (i)	Accessory muscle use in breathing or an otherwise deteriorating breathing
   pattern.

   6510.3. Each nursing facility shall have an appropriate program for discharge
   and weaning from the ventilator.

   6510.4. The nursing facility shall ensure that the resident and all caregivers
   be trained in all aspects of mechanical ventilation and demonstrate
   proficiency in ventilator care techniques before a ventilator-dependent
   resident can be discharged home on a mechanical ventilator.

   6510.5. The physician and respiratory team shall arrange a schedule for
   follow-up visits, as indicated by the needs of the resident.

   6510.6. A written discharge plan shall be provided to and reviewed with the
   resident and resident&#8217;s caregiver and shall include at a minimum the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name, address and telephone number of the primary physician;
   
   
   
   (b)	Address and telephone number of the local hospital emergency department;
   
   
   
   (c)	Name, address and telephone number of the physician for regular
   respiratory check-ups, if different from the physician identified in
   6510.4(a);
   
   
   
   (d)	The responsibilities of the resident and caregiver in daily ventilator
   care;
   
   
   
   (e)	Identification of financial resources for long-term care;
   
   
   
   (f)	Identification of community resources for health, social, educational and
   vocational needs;
   
   
   
   (g)	An itemized list of all equipment and supplies needed for mechanical
   ventilation;
   
   
   
   (h)	Names, addresses and telephone numbers of mechanical ventilation equipment
   dealers and a list of services that they provide; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Contingency plans for emergency situations.

   6510.7. The nursing facility shall notify MAA of the date of discharge from
   the facility.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 1370 (February 24, 2006).
