                                  DC REGULATIONS

VENTILATOR CARE (ยง 29-6509)

6509.1. In addition to the facility-specific base year per diem rate
   calculated in accordance with subsection 6508.1 (a) through (c), MAA shall pay
   an additional per diem amount for any day that a resident qualifies for and
   receives ventilator care pursuant to the requirements set forth in sections
   6509 through 6511.

   6509.2. Each resident receiving ventilator care shall meet all of the
   following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be ventilator dependent and not able to breathe without mechanical
   ventilation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Use the ventilator for life support, 16 hours per day, 7 days per week;
   
   
   
   (c)	Have a tracheostomy or endotracheal tube;
   
   
   
   (d)	At the time of placement the resident has been ventilator dependent during
   a single stay or continuous stay at a hospital, skilled nursing facility or
   intermediate care facility for the mentally retarded;
   
   
   
   (e)	Have a determination by the resident&#8217;s physician and respiratory
   care team that the service is medically necessary, as well as documentation
   which describes the type of mechanical ventilation, technique and equipment;
   
   
   
   (f)	Be medically stable, without infections or extreme changes in ventilatory
   settings and/or duration (increase in respiratory rate by 5 breaths per
   minute, increase in F102 of 25% or more, and/or increase in tidal volume of
   200 mls or more) at time of placement;
   
   
   
   (g)	Require services on a daily basis which cannot be provided at a lower
   level of care; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Require services be provided under the supervision of a licensed health
   care professional.

   6509.3. Each nursing facility shall comply with all of the standards governing
   ventilator care services set forth in section 3215 of Title 22 DCMR.

   6509.4. Ventilator care shall be prior-authorized by the Department of Health,
   Medical Assistance Administration (MAA). The following documents shall be
   required for each authorization:
   
   
   
   (a)	Level of Care determination;
   
   
   
   (b)	Pre-admission Screening and Annual Resident Review (PASARR) forms;
   
   
   
   (c)	Admission history;
   
   
   
   (d)	Physical examination reports;
   
   
   
   (e)	Surgical reports; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Consultation reports and ventilator dependent addendum.

   6509.5. For purposes of this section the term &#8220;medically
   necessary&#8221; shall mean a service that is required to prevent, identify,
   or treat a resident&#8217;s illness, injury or disability and meets the
   following standards:
   
   
   
   (a)	Consistency with the resident&#8217;s symptoms, or with prevention,
   diagnosis, or treatment of the resident&#8217;s illness or injury;
   
   
   
   (b)	Consistency with standards of acceptable quality of care applicable to the
   type of service, the type of provider, and the setting in which the service is
   provided;
   
   
   
   (c)	Appropriateness with regard to generally accepted standards of medical
   practice;
   
   
   
   (d)	Is not medically contraindicated with regard to the resident&#8217;s
   diagnosis, symptoms, or other medically necessary services being provided to
   the resident;
   
   
   
   (e)	Is of proven medical value or usefulness, and is not experimental in
   nature;
   
   
   
   (f)	Is not duplicative with respect to other services being provided to the
   resident;
   
   
   
   (g)	Is not solely for the convenience of the resident;
   
   
   
   (h)	Is cost-effective compared to an alternative medically necessary service
   which is reasonably acceptable to the resident based on coverage
   determinations; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Is the most appropriate supply or level of service that can safely and
   effectively be provided to the resident.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 1370 (February 24, 2006).
