                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR PARKING FACILITY LICENSE (§ 24-603)

603.1 	No license for a parking facility issued under the provisions of this
   chapter shall be issued until application is made to the Department of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs (Department), upon a form furnished by the
   Director.
   
   603.2 	Each application shall be signed by the owner or manager of each
   business and shall correctly set forth the information required on the
   application form.
   
   603.3 	Each applicant shall correctly state the following:
   
   (a) 	The ownership and location of the premises, or the parts of the premises,
   to be used for the storage and keeping of vehicles;
   
   (b) 	The area in square feet (ft.2) to be used in the business;
   
   (c) 	For surface parking lots, a description of any curbing or fencing to be
   maintained as required under § 605 of this chapter; and
   
   (d) 	Any other information deemed necessary and appearing on the application
   form that is provided.
   
   603.4 	Each application shall be accompanied by a Certificate of Occupancy
   issued for the property to be used by the applicant. Applicants for surface
   parking lots shall additionally provide a plat showing the size and area of
   the land, as prepared by the District Surveyor.
   
   603.5 	Where fences, copings, driveways, or other uses of public space are
   required, they must meet the requirements of and be permitted by the District
   Department of Transportation.

   603.6. An applicant who is not a resident of the District of Columbia shall,
   as a condition to the issuance of a license, employ as his or her agent a
   person who is a resident of the District or who has a place of business in the
   District, and upon whom may be served all notices and court processes in
   connection with or arising out of the licensee’s business operation. The
   designated agent shall certify on the application that he or she has agreed to
   act as an agent for the licensee.

   603.7. The appointment or employment of an agent shall be maintained during
   the period of time for which a license is issued; whenever any change is made
   in the appointment or employment of the agent required by this section, the
   licensee shall deliver to the Director a written notice of the change not less
   than five (5) days after the change.

   603.8. The Director, upon finding that an agent designated by a licensee in
   accordance with the requirements of this section is not, after reasonable
   search, to be found in the District for the purpose of serving the licensee
   any notice or process required to be served, may institute a proceeding for
   the suspension or revocation of the license issued to the licensee; and notice
   of the suspension or revocation shall be effective if mailed to the last known
   address of the licensee appearing in the Department’s records.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 28, §§1(d), (e) &#038; (f) of the Police Regulations (1981)
   (as section 602); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 7303
   (September 4, 2009).
