                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR VALET PARKING LICENSE (§ 24-614)

614.1. No license for valet parking issued under the provisions of this
   chapter shall be issued until application is made to the Department of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, upon a form furnished by the Director.

   614.2. Each application shall be signed by the owner or manager of each
   business and shall correctly set forth the information required on the
   application form.

   614.3. No license shall be issued unless the applicant certifies that he or
   she has reviewed applicable District zoning laws and regulations and the
   applicant’s business is not required to obtain a Certificate of Occupancy.

   614.4. An applicant who is not a resident of the District of Columbia shall,
   as a condition to the issuance of a license, employ as his or her agent a
   person who is a resident of the District or who has a place of business in the
   District, and upon whom may be served all notices and court processes in
   connection with or arising out of the licensee’s business operation. The
   designated agent shall certify on the application that he or she has agreed to
   act as an agent for the licensee.

   614.5. The appointment or employment of an agent shall be maintained during
   the period of time for which a license is issued; whenever any change is made
   in the appointment or employment of the agent required by this section, the
   licensee shall deliver to the Director a written notice of the change not less
   than five (5) days after the change.

   614.6. The Director, upon finding that an agent designated by a licensee in
   accordance with the requirements of this section is not, after reasonable
   search, to be found in the District for the purpose of serving the licensee
   any notice or process required to be served, may institute a proceeding for
   the suspension or revocation of the license issued to the licensee; and notice
   of the suspension or revocation shall be effective if mailed to the last known
   address of the licensee appearing in the Department’s records.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 7303 (September 4, 2009).
