                                  DC REGULATIONS

LOAN PROGRAM AGREEMENT (ยง 29-2104)

2104.1. Each loan recipient shall sign a loan agreement which shall include
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Amount of the loan;
   
   
   
   (b)	The schedule for repayment;
   
   
   
   (c)	The date the payment is due;
   
   
   
   (d)	The amount of the installment payment;
   
   
   
   (e)	The late payment fees; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The date the late payment fee is applicable.

   2104.2. The recipient shall repay each loan in monthly installments, according
   to a schedule agreed upon by the recipient, not to exceed twenty-four (24)
   months after the date in which the loan was made.

   2104.3. At least four (4) members or representatives of the recipient group or
   entity shall sign the loan agreement. The eligible group or entity shall
   acknowledge in writing, as part of the application process, its individual and
   collective responsibility to pay each monthly installment payment when due or
   to repay the loan until the entire loan has been paid in full.

   2104.4. The eligible group or entity shall designate at the time of
   application the person who shall serve as the agent on behalf of the group or
   entity for purpose of receiving loan monies and implementing the
   administrative management functions under the loan agreement. This designation
   shall be notarized.

   2104.5. The group or entity requesting the loan shall agree to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the house be maintained in an alcohol and drug free environment;
   
   
   
   (b)	That the residents of the house remain alcohol and drug free;
   
   
   
   (c)	That the cost of housing, including rent and utilities, be borne by the
   residents;
   
   
   
   (d)	That the monthly installment payments on the loan be borne by the
   residents until paid in full; and
   
   
   
   (e)	That any resident of the house who violates the pledge of remaining
   alcohol and drug free or of bearing his or her share of the household expenses
   be expelled from the house in accordance with the criteria of ยง2104.5.

   2104.6. The residents of the housing unit of the prospective borrower shall
   establish through a majority vote of the residents, the rules governing the
   management of the house. The rules shall include, but not be limited to the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The officers of the house, the criteria for electing the officers, their
   term of office, and their duties;
   
   
   
   (b)	Criteria for admitting new residents and expelling residents who violate
   the governing rules of the house;
   
   
   
   (c)	Frequency, schedule, and purpose of resident meetings;
   
   
   
   (d)	Process for collecting funds from residents for the operation and
   maintenance of the house, financial transactions and any other expenses;
   
   
   
   (e)	Procedures for determining how expenses shall be shared among the
   residents;
   
   
   
   (f)	Guidelines for determining how household chores will be assigned to
   residents;
   
   
   
   (g)	Procedures for resolving problems, disputes, and disagreements;
   
   
   
   (h)	Procedures for accounting for funds collected from residents and for
   monthly reporting of the financial status of the housing; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Other rules as necessary governing the safe, hygienic, harmonious
   operation of the house, such as:
   
   
   
   (1)	Curfews (if necessary);
   
   
   
   (2)	Assigning clean-up chores;
   
   
   
   (3)	Assigning beds;
   
   
   
   (4)	Rules for use of common living areas; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Parking.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 38 DCR 603, 605 (January 18, 1991).
