                                  DC REGULATIONS

LOAN PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS (§ 29-2102)

2102.1. The Department shall authorize loans to non-profit groups and entities
   for the purpose of defraying housing costs associated with four (4) or more
   recovering individuals who plan to reside together in a house.

   2102.2. The eligible group or entity shall be required to have a counseling
   session regarding the management of the self-help housing programs, its
   accounting, and mechanisms to be used to collect loan payments prior to
   receiving an approved loan.

   2102.3. The loan shall be used for the following purposes:
   
   
   
   (a)	Security deposit;
   
   
   
   (b)	First month’s rent;
   
   
   
   (c)	Facility modification, i.e., minor renovations to convert the housing to
   accommodate group living;
   
   
   
   (d)	Furniture necessary to make the dwelling livable, such as beds; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Amenities which foster healthy group living, such as a dishwasher.

   2102.4. Loans shall not be made for the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Purchasing or leasing of recreational or leisure equipment or furnishings,
   such as televisions, video cassette recorders, video games, audio equipment,
   houseboats and lawn furniture.
   
   
   
   (b)	Establishing residential treatment programs for substance abusers;
   
   
   
   (c)	Repaying other loans which the group or entity may have obtained under
   these rules or other sources; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Paying overdue rent costs or utility bills which are owed for established
   housing or other costs associated with established housing, whether or not
   occupied by the eligible group or entity applying for a loan under this
   program.

   2102.5. All housing shall be located in the District of Columbia.

   2102.6. The housing shall accommodate at least four (4) individuals.

   2102.7. There is no limit on the number of loans which a group or entity may
   apply for and receive under this program.

   2102.8. Groups or entities which fail to repay or are late in repaying a
   previous loan are not eligible for a new loan.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 38 DCR 603 (January 18, 1991).
