                                  DC REGULATIONS

REFUSAL TO ISSUE[COLON] SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF INSTRUCTORS LICENSE (§
18-902)

902.1. The Director may refuse to issue or renew, or may suspend or revoke a
   license issued under the provisions of §§ 900 and 901 in any case where the
   Director finds the applicant or licensee has violated or failed to comply with
   any of the provisions of §§ 900 and 901, or whenever the Director finds that
   the person to whom it was issued is no longer physically, mentally, or morally
   qualified to hold such license.

   902.2. Upon suspending, revoking, or refusing to issue or renew a license, the
   Director shall immediately notify the applicant or licensee, stating the
   reasons for the action and affording a reasonable opportunity for hearing.

   902.3. Service of any order of suspension or revocation shall be by registered
   mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the licensee on
   file in the Department.

   902.4. If such notice is returned for reasons other than refusal, then the
   order shall be referred to the Chief of Police, Metropolitan Police
   Department, for personal service by a member of that department.

   902.5. Any order of suspension or revocation shall be effective on the date it
   is mailed by registered mail, return receipt requested, to the last known
   address of the licensee on file with the Department; Provided, that if the
   notice is returned for reasons other than refusal, the effective date of the
   notice shall be the date on which personal service is made on the licensee or
   his or her attorney.

   902.6. A suspended or revoked license shall be returned immediately to the
   Director by the licensee.

   902.7. An Appeals Board shall review an order suspending or revoking a license
   if the licensee files a written request stating the reasons for the requested
   review within five (5) days of the effective date of the order of suspension
   or revocation.

   902.8. An examiner shall review a refusal to issue a license if the applicant
   files a written request stating the reasons for the requested review within
   five (5) days of the refusal to issue a license.
