                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVAL AND CERTIFICATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT PREVENTION COURSES (§
18-911)

911.1. The term “person” includes an individual, firm, corporation,
   partnership, association, and company.

   911.2. No person shall offer, conduct, or engage in the business of offering
   or conducting a motor vehicle accident prevention course within the meaning of
   the Senior Citizen Motor Vehicle Accident Prevention Course Certification Act
   of 1983 (hereafter “course”), without obtaining a certificate of approval
   from the Director pursuant to the provisions of this section.

   911.3. A person shall file an application for approval of a course with the
   Director.

   911.4. The application shall be on the form furnished by the Director and
   shall contain the information required by the Director.

   911.5. The application shall contain the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the person submitting the application;
   
   
   
   (b)	A copy of the proposed senior citizen motor vehicle accident prevention
   course materials, curriculum, and promotional documents;
   
   
   
   (c)	The full name, address, date of birth, sex, social security number, and
   residence of each person proposed to instruct the course. The applicant shall
   certify that each person proposed to instruct the course meets the
   qualifications set forth in § 900.4;
   
   
   
   (d)	If the proposed course includes field driving instruction, then the
   application shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The number, date of issuance and expiration date of the driver
   instructor’s license issued pursuant to § 900.5 for each person proposed to
   give field driving instruction; and
   
   
   
   (2)	The insurance certificate required pursuant to § 906.2;
   
   
   
   (e)	A copy of the manual and course materials to be used in training and
   preparing instructors; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The fee, if any, for the course; and the level of compensation for
   instructors of the course.

   911.6. Course approval and certification shall be valid for a two (2) year
   period.

   911.7. The fee charged, if any, for the course; and the level of compensation
   for instructors of the course.

   911.8. No course shall be approved unless the course fulfills the requirements
   set forth in this section.

   911.9. A course shall have a minimum of eight (8) hours of actual classroom or
   field driving instruction insured vehicles bearing current inspection stickers
   only.

   911.10. The curriculum of a course shall include, but not be limited to, the
   following subjects:
   
   
   
   (a)	Concept of accident preventability, including a discussion of the
   magnitude of traffic accident problems;
   
   
   
   (b)	Techniques of defensive driving and responding to critical situations,
   including but not limited to, the following subjects:
   
   
   
   (1)	Interpreting events that require evasive action;
   
   
   
   (2)	Determining the appropriate response to situations caused by mechanical
   failure of the motor vehicle; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Determining risk factors created by a variety of psychological, social,
   and physical factors that can facilitate or inhibit the functions required in
   driving, including but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (c)	The effects of, and relationships between, alcohol, illicit drugs and
   medication, and driving performances and compensating measures;
   
   
   
   (d)	The negative stresses and compensating measures associated with physical,
   mental, and social conditions as they relate to driver performances; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The age-related physical, mental, and psychological changes of drivers
   fifty-five (55) years of age and older; and
   
   
   
   (f)	District of Columbia traffic laws and regulations, vehicle dynamics
   capabilities, limitations, and highway environmental factors, including the
   following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Traffic laws and regulations, such as signs, signals and markings,
   rights-of-way requirements, and speed;
   
   
   
   (2)	Vehicle capabilities, such as stopping distances and passing abilities;
   and
   
   
   
   (3)	Highway settings, operating environments and adverse conditions such as
   the effects of illumination, obstructions, snow, ice, rain or fog.

   911.11. Upon approval of a course by the Director, the Director shall issue to
   the applicant a Certificate of Approval for a Senior Citizen Motor Vehicle
   Accident Prevention Course in a form furnished by the Director, indicating the
   date of approval, date of expiration of approval, and a Certificate of
   Approval number.

   911.12. No motor vehicle may be used for the purpose of giving driving
   instructions under an approved and certified Senior Citizen Motor Vehicle
   Accident Prevention Course unless the applicant has obtained from the Director
   a driving school vehicle identification certificate which shall be
   conspicuously displayed in the motor vehicle at all times while the motor
   vehicle is being used either for driving instruction or a road test.

   911.13. The driving school vehicle identification certificate shall not be
   issued unless and until the motor vehicle for which it is to be issued is
   equipped with dual controls on foot brake and clutch, if any, and otherwise
   equipped in accordance with this title.

   911.14. A person who obtains approvals for a course shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Conduct the course in accordance with the curriculum approved by the
   Director;
   
   
   
   (b)	Apply to the Director for approval of any proposed additions to, deletions
   from or changes in an approved course, curriculum, instructors, and
   qualifications of approved instructors under the approved application;
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide, and if necessary train, instructors identified in its application
   to conduct courses;
   
   
   
   (d)	Provide the Director, upon request, with a schedule of class dates, times
   and locations;
   
   
   
   (e)	Perform all necessary administrative functions in connection with the
   course;
   
   
   
   (f)	Provide each participant at the time of enrollment in the course with a
   printed statement that indicates that an insurer shall offer a reduced premium
   for motor vehicle insurance to an insured who is at least fifty- five (55)
   years of age and who has, within the preceding two (2) year period,
   successfully completed an accident prevention course approved pursuant to this
   section;
   
   
   
   (g)	Obtain the Director’s approval of the certificate of course completion,
   which shall at a minimum, indicate the number given the Certificate of
   Approval issued pursuant to § 911.11;
   
   
   
   (h)	Provide each participant with a certificate of course completion upon
   satisfactory completion of the course;
   
   
   
   (i)	Maintain records which indicate the name, address, and drivers license
   number of those individuals who have completed the course within the previous
   three (3) years;
   
   
   
   (j)	Provide the Director with access to the records of the approved course,
   and monitor and evaluate any and all elements or components of the course,
   including but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Classroom facility;
   
   
   
   (2)	Field driving;
   
   
   
   (3)	Use of instructional material;
   
   
   
   (4)	Actual presentations; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Any other matter deemed necessary to evaluate the course;
   
   
   
   (k)	Allow the Director or his or her designee to inspect and observe the
   course; and
   
   
   
   (l)	Display the Certificate of Approval of the course issued pursuant to §
   911.11 and course fee, if any, in a prominent or conspicuous place while
   instruction is being given.

   911.15. Upon five (5) days notice and an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to
   chapter 10 of this title, the Director may rescind or cancel the Certificate
   of Approval of a course prior to the expiration of the two (2) year time
   period established by § 911.6, for any of the following reasons:
   
   
   
   (a)	Material deletions, or additions to, the curriculum which have not been
   specifically approved by the Director, including persons authorized to
   instruct such courses not approved by the Director;
   
   
   
   (b)	Pursuant to an evaluation or monitoring under §§ 911.14(j) and
   911.14(k), the Director determines that the course is administered in an
   unsatisfactory manner;
   
   
   
   (c)	After review of statistical data, the course is determined to be
   ineffective;
   
   
   
   (d)	The applicant or licensee fails to comply with any of the provisions of
   this section; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Fraud, misrepresentation, or other illegal conduct in the administration
   of any approved courses.

   911.16. All promotional advertising of a Senior Citizen Motor Vehicle Accident
   Prevention Course by a licensed driving school shall be subject to the
   provisions of 18 DCMR 910, “Advertising by Driving Schools.”
