                                  DC REGULATIONS

MOTOR VEHICLE DRIVING INSTRUCTORS (§ 18-900)

900.1. Except as provided in § 911, no person shall act as a motor vehicle
   driving instructor unless licensed by the Director under the provisions of
   §§ 900 and 901 of this chapter.

   900.2. The Director may adopt rules necessary to carry out the provisions of
   §§ 900 and 901 of this chapter.

   900.3. For the purposes of §§ 900 through §§ 910 of this chapter, the term
   “instructor” means any person, whether acting for himself or herself as
   operator of a school or acting for any school for compensation, who teaches,
   conducts classes, gives demonstrations, or supervises practice for persons in
   driving motor vehicles.

   900.4. The Department shall not issue any driving instructor’s license to
   any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any person who is under eighteen (18) years of age;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any person who is unable to read, write, and speak the English language;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any person who is covered by diplomatic immunity;
   
   
   
   (d)	Any person who does not possess a valid District of Columbia motor vehicle
   operator’s license;
   
   
   
   (e)	Any person who has previously been adjudged to be afflicted with or
   suffering from any mental disability or disease and who has not, at the time
   of application, been restored to competency by the methods provided by law;
   
   
   
   (f)	Any person who is required by this title to take an examination unless
   that person has successfully passed the examination;
   
   
   
   (g)	Any person employed by a Federal or District agency which has an
   established policy forbidding its employees from operating a public vehicle
   for hire;
   
   
   
   (h)	Any employee of the Department of Public Works whose employment is
   concerned directly with the issuance of any license;
   
   
   
   (i)	Any person who has not, within the three (3) years immediately preceding
   the date of application for an instructor’s license, resided for at least
   one (1) year in the Metropolitan Area and had at least one (1) year of driving
   experience as a licensed motor vehicle operator in the Metropolitan Area;
   
   
   
   (j)	Any person who, by reason of physical or mental disability, the Director
   has good cause to believe would not be capable of safely operating a public
   vehicle;
   
   
   
   (k)	Any person who has been convicted of offenses against traffic regulations
   of the District or elsewhere with such frequency as to indicate a disrespect
   for traffic laws and a disregard for the safety of other persons or property;
   
   
   
   (l)	Any person who is a chronic alcoholic or who is addicted to the use of
   drugs;
   
   
   
   (m)	Any person who is on parole or probation at the time of filing the
   application for an instructor’s license; Provided, that if the parole or
   probation arose out of conviction for a crime other than those listed in
   paragraph (n) of this subsection, the applicant may be considered for approval
   by the Director if a letter from the appropriate parole or probation officer
   is submitted with the application stating that there is no objection to the
   issuance of an instructor’s license; and
   
   
   
   (n)	Any person who has, within the three (3) years immediately preceding the
   filing of the application, been convicted of, is serving a sentence for, or is
   under indictment for committing or attempting to commit any of the following
   crimes:
   
   
   
   (1)	Murder, manslaughter, mayhem, malicious disfiguring of another, abduction,
   kidnapping, burglary, housebreaking, robbery, or larceny;
   
   
   
   (2)	Assault with intent to commit any offense punishable by imprisonment in a
   penitentiary;
   
   
   
   (3)	Any sex offense; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Any violation of the narcotics laws.

   900.5. The Director shall issue an instructor’s license to an applicant who
   has complied with the provisions of §§ 900 and 901.

   900.6. All licenses shall expire on October 31st of each calendar year.

   900.7. In case of the loss, theft, or destruction of any instructor’s
   license, the licensee shall immediately notify the Director of the loss,
   theft, or destruction.

   900.8. Upon application made under oath on the form required by the Director,
   and upon payment of a fee of seven dollars ($ 7.00), the Director may issue a
   duplicate license.

   900.9. An instructor shall display the motor vehicle instructor’s license
   prominently in the vehicle used while instructions are being given.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: D.C. Act 16-636 published at 54 DCR 903, 921 (February 2, 2007).
