                                  DC REGULATIONS

CORRECTIVE ACTION PROCESS (ยง 19-3420)

3420.1. Corrective actions are formal actions of the Commission.  The
   corrective action process consists of a number of steps that may or may not be
   followed in sequence, including, but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Oral Reprimand;
   
   
   
   (b)	Written Reprimand;
   
   
   
   (c)	 Suspension; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Dismissal or Termination.

   3420.2. Disciplinary leave (suspension) may be given to an employee under one
   of the following two sets of circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	As a follow-up to a written notice of unsatisfactory performance in the
   corrective action process; and
   
   
   
   (b)	As an interim measure following an act of serious misconduct or breach of
   organizational rules or regulations. The Executive Director or his/her
   designee shall review and approve every disciplinary action.

   3420.3. The Commission shall terminate an employee who has been charged with
   serious misconduct or neglect of duty. The Executive Director or his/her
   designee shall approve every involuntary termination, except those involving
   probationary employees.

   3420.4. Examples of serious misconduct or neglect of duty include, but are not
   limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Insubordination, incompetency or gross inefficiency;
   
   
   
   (b)	Fighting on the job or using abusive or profane language;
   
   
   
   (c)	Possession of controlled substances;
   
   
   
   (d)	Intoxication;
   
   
   
   (e)	Misrepresentation in securing employment or falsification of official
   records;
   
   
   
   (f)	Breach of confidentiality, theft or dishonesty;
   
   
   
   (g)	Failure to exercise reasonable judgment in performance of job duties;
   
   
   
   (h)	Failure to follow organizational rules, policies and procedures;
   
   
   
   (i)	Sexual harassment;
   
   
   
   (j)	Tardiness, poor attendance or lack of dependability;
   
   
   
   (k)	Discourteous treatment of the Commission clients, the public, supervisors,
   or other employees;
   
   
   
   (l)	Misuse, mutilation or destruction of Commission property or funds; and
   
   
   
   (m)	Failure of good behavior during duty hours which is of such a nature that
   it causes discredit to the Commission.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 4938, 4848-49 (August 29, 1997).
