                                  DC REGULATIONS

LEAVE OF ABSENCE (§ 19-3411)

3411.1. The Commission may grant a medical leave of absence for 240 hours to a
   permanent full-time employee who has depleted his or her sick leave and annual
   leave if the following steps are taken:
   
   
   
   (a)	The employee requests the leave of absence in writing;
   
   
   
   (b)	The employee provides certification from a licensed physician stating the
   necessity for the leave of absence;
   
   
   
   (c)	The employee provides a return-to-work authorization from the licensed
   attending physician; and
   
   
   
   (d)	There is no history of sick leave abuse.

   3411.2. The Commission may grant a general leave of absence without pay to the
   maximum of one (1) year (including extensions) to a regular full-time
   employee.

   3411.3. Commission employees may take up to sixteen (16) weeks of unpaid leave
   over a twenty-four (24) month period for family or medical purposes as more
   fully defined in the Commission’s Personnel Procedures Manual.

   3411.4. Approval of leave for maternity or paternity reasons shall be
   consistent with the Commission’s policy for granting leave for similar
   situations.

   3411.5. An employee who has been summoned to report for jury duty shall be
   placed on administrative leave for that time period. However, the Commission
   shall not compensate any such difference in salary or pay for jury duty served
   on Commission holidays or non-working days.

   3411.6. The Commission may grant military leave of absence for a period not to
   exceed five (5) years.  During this period, the employee’s salary and
   benefit levels shall be frozen, and he or she shall be considered to be on
   extended leave of absence.

   3411.7. In addition to other types of leave, the Executive Director may grant
   administrative leave with pay for a variety of reasons to include: 
   bereavement not to exceed three (1) days (immediate family consisting of
   spouse, children, siblings, parents, grandparents, and grandchildren), bad
   weather conditions or problems associated with physical conditions in the
   Commission.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 4938, 4944 (August 29, 1997).
