                                  DC REGULATIONS

TERMINATION (§ 19-3421)

3421.1. The Commission may terminate an employee for a variety of reasons
   relating to his or her job.  Examples of reasons for termination include, but
   are not limited to, the following;
   
   
   
   (a)	 Unsatisfactory job performance;
   
   
   
   (b)	Abandonment of position;
   
   
   
   (c)	 Reduction-in-force;
   
   
   
   (d)	Serious misconduct;
   
   
   
   (e)	 Neglect of duty; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Failure to successfully complete probationary period.

   3421.2. The Commission may elect to reduce the level of positions for a
   variety of reasons including: financial consideration, restructuring of work
   unit, or termination of segments of the organization’s services or
   operations.  The Commission shall give employees terminated, because of
   reduction-in-force, a minimum of thirty (30) days written notice.

   3421.3. An employee who fails to report to work or to notify his or her
   supervisor of a pending absence for five (5) consecutive days shall be deemed
   to have abandoned and voluntarily resigned his/her position. His or her
   employment shall be terminated as of the close of business of the fifth day of
   absence.

   3421.4. Except for terminations during a probationary period, or in cases
   involving serious misconduct or neglect of duty, an employee shall not be
   terminated involuntarily until procedures for corrective action are employed,
   pursuant to section 3420.

   3421.5. The supervisor of the employee shall present written notice of
   termination to the employee at least two (2) weeks prior to the effective date
   of such termination. The written notice shall state the reasons for the action
   and the effective date of termination.

   3421.6. The Commission shall not be obligated to provide two (2) weeks notice
   to any employee where the termination occurs during the initial probationary
   period.

   3421.7. Even in terminations which do not involve serious misconduct or
   neglect of duty, the supervisor may, in his or her sole discretion, determine
   that it would be in the best interests of the employee not to remain on the
   premises during the two (2) week notice period. Where such determination is
   made, the employee shall be eligible for payment upon receipt of notice, as
   outlined in the Personnel Procedures Manual of the Commission.

   3421.8. Severance pay shall be provided only to those employees who are
   terminated as a result of a reduction-in-force pursuant to section 3421.1.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 4938, 4949-50 (August 29, 1997).
