                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONFLICT OF INTEREST (§ 19-3422)

3422.1. Commission employees shall not participate in transactions that may
   result in conflict, or apparent conflict, between the private interests of the
   employee and the interests of the organization. Specifically, no employee
   shall do any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Have a direct or indirect financial interest that conflicts substantially,
   or appears to conflict substantially, with the employee’s responsibilities
   for the organization;
   
   
   
   (b)	Engage directly or indirectly in financial transactions as a result of or
   primarily in reliance upon information obtained as a result of performing
   services for the organization as an employee;
   
   
   
   (c)	Solicit or accept, directly or indirectly, any gift, gratuity, favor,
   compensation, or any other thing of significant monetary value from any
   person, corporation, or other entity that has, or is seeking to obtain
   contractual or other business or financial relationships with the
   organization.

   3422.2. Employees may participate in a political campaign on their own time by
   using either annual leave or leave without pay. Employees shall not use
   organization time, facilities, resources or their personal affiliation with
   the Commission to participate in campaign activities.

   3422.3. Employees may engage in professional activities and ventures outside
   the organization provided that the following conditions are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	Each independent outside professional activity shall be conducted on the
   employee’s own time without the use of organizational facilities, funds,
   supplies, staff or resources; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Each outside professional service is not in conflict with any activity or
   policy of the commission.

   3422.4. Personal visits by friends or relatives during working hours shall be
   kept to a minimum.  Employees shall not bring their children to the office as
   a substitute for other child care arrangements.

   3422.5. The official hours of work of the organization shall be 8:30 a.m. to
   5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, unless otherwise designated and approved by
   the Executive Director, for a total of 40 regular hours in a work  week or a
   total of 2,080 regular hours in a year.

   3422.6. Employees who work at least eight (8) hours in a day shall be entitled
   to take a one (1) hour lunch break. Employees who work fewer than eight (8)
   hours per day shall be entitled to a lunch break at the discretion of their
   immediate supervisor.

   3422.7. Employees under the age of eighteen (18) shall not be employed by the
   Commission unless, and until, the employee had procured a work permit issued
   by the Board of Education which conforms to the requirements of D.C. Code §
   39-508.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 4938, 4950-51 (August 29, 1997).
