                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECRUITMENT (§ 19-3402)

3402.1. Except for the Executive Director position, vacancies for permanent
   full-time positions shall be posted for a minimum of five working days before
   any job offers may be extended.  Internal staff shall have an opportunity to
   apply and be considered for vacant positions.

   3402.2. When it is necessary to advertise externally to fill a vacant
   position, the following information shall be included in the advertisement:
   
   
   
   (a)	Position Title;
   
   
   
   (b)	Brief description of the work to be performed;
   
   
   
   (c)	Minimum desirable skills and experience required;
   
   
   
   (d)	Special skills required;
   
   
   
   (e)	Salary information;
   
   
   
   (f)	Information required to be submitted with application (e.g., resume,
   DC-2000, etc.); and
   
   
   
   (g)	Equal employment opportunity language as required.

   3402.3. The Personnel Office of the Commission shall be responsible for the
   recruitment process of filling vacant or new positions.  The Personnel Office
   shall develop sources to assist managers and supervisors in obtaining the best
   qualified employees for the Commission.

   3402.4. The Personnel Office of the Commission shall accept and evaluate each
   employment application.  The Personnel Officer and the Executive Director
   shall be authorized to make salary commitments.

   3402.5. Internal candidates shall complete a D.C. Sports Commission
   application when applying for positions.  In addition, internal candidates
   shall undergo the same screening and interview process as all other
   candidates.

   3402.6. Whenever possible, internal candidates shall be considered before
   candidates from outside the Commission. Priority for promotion shall be given
   to the employee with the most seniority with the Commission, as long as all
   other factors are equal.

   3402.7. A supervisor evaluating an applicant shall use criteria specifically
   related to the requirements for the position specified in the Personnel
   Vacancy Announcement.  A supervisor shall select employees in a
   non-discriminatory manner in accordance with the Commission’s equal
   employment policies.

   3402.8. Candidates who live in the District and who apply for a District
   residency preference shall be given five (5) points in the qualifications
   evaluation process.

   3402.9. During the evaluation of an internal candidate, the selecting
   supervisor may review the candidate’s personnel file and obtain a reference
   from the current supervisor. If any outside candidate is being evaluated, the
   Personnel Office shall check the candidate’s previous employment reference
   prior to a formal offer of employment.

   3402.10. With the advance approval of the Executive Director or his/her
   designee, the Commission may reimburse expenses incurred in connection with
   relocating a newly- appointed staff member to Washington, D.C.

   3402.11. The Commission may reimburse interviewing expenses, if the expenses
   are approved in advance by the Executive Director.

   3402.12. The Personnel Office of the Commission shall conduct a new employee
   orientation on the employee’s first day at work.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 4938, 4939-40 (August 29, 1997).
