                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION REVIEW (§ 29-1808)

1808.1. After the NOFA has been published and the RFA released, the Department
   shall 			appoint a review panel comprised of a minimum of three individuals.

   1808.2. Each review panelist shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Have knowledge and expertise in the objectives of the grant, the RFA and the
   administrative requirements mandated by the source of the funds; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be free of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of
   interest as evidenced by a signed affidavit certifying that they have no
   personal or vested interest in the organizations that submitted applications
   in response to the RFA.
   
   
   
   1808.3  	Review panelists who are employees of the District government may not
   be compensated and may only serve if they have written authorization from
   their supervisors to serve on a review panel.

   1808.4. Review panelists who are not employees of the District government may
   be compensated for time served on a panel provided that funds have been
   authorized and appropriated for such purposes, at a rate that obtains the best
   qualified panelists at one of the following rates:
   
   (a) 	The maximum rate allowable by the federal grantor Department for its own
   review panelists;
   
   (b) 	The amount available in the administrative budget of the grant or
   subgrant; or
   
    (c) 	The maximum daily rate of a current DS-15 pay scale for the Department.

   1808.5. The Department shall be responsible for the following:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Ensuring that the review panelists have the information needed to serve
   on a panel; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Convening a meeting of the panelists prior to the review activities and
   instructing the panelists on:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The goals and objectives of the grant and the RFA;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The scoring criteria and instruments; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The timeframe for completion of the panel’s work.

   1808.6. The review panel shall score the applications and make recommendations
   which applications should be funded based upon the applicant’s demonstrated
   ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of the proposed
   grant or subgrants. All materials received by the Department or a panel member
   from any applicant shall be protected, treated as confidential, and used only
   for purposes of                      evaluating the applicant’s proposal.
   
   
   
   1808.7 	After the Grant Officer has received the evaluations and records of
   the review panel, the Director or his/her designee shall make final decisions
   on awards and the amounts of each grant or subgrant, subject to the advice of
   any 	advisory body required by law or regulation for the funding grant.

   1808.8. If the Director or his/her designee decides not to follow the review
   panel’s recommendations, the Director or his/her designee shall provide a
   written justification in the grant records that includes a strong rationale
   supported by documentation for the decision to not follow the review panel’s
   recommendation.

   1808.9. The Director has the discretion to review any claims against the grant
   review process but the Director’s decision is final and shall not be
   appealed.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 15243 (November 1, 2013).
