                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUEST FOR APPLICATION (RFA) (§ 29-1806)

1806.1. The Department shall prepare an RFA consistent with the OPGS Grants
   Manual,           which shall include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A description of the purpose of the program, including a definition of the
   type and range of services and activities that a grantee or subgrantee shall
   carry out under a grant or subgrant.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Where applicable, a requirement that the applicant propose measureable goals,
   objectives and timeframes, target recipients, and provide a plan of formal
   evaluation for each specific service proposed by the applicant.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A “Purpose of Program” section which specifies the time period for which
   all services will be funded and any other special requirements emanating from
   the authorizing statute, federal grant agreement or regulations.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Where applicable, the criteria for scoring applications including, but not
   limited to:
   
   
   
   (1)  	Justification of the need for grant funds, if desirable;
   
   
   
   (2)  	Soundness of proposed service delivery plan;
   
   
   
   (3)  	Adequacy and reasonableness of proposed resources; and,
   
   
   
   (4)  	Required and demonstrated capability for managing the proposed project.
   
   
   
   (e) 	A reasonable deadline for submitting applications which shall be thirty
   (30) days unless the Director determines that circumstances warrant a shorter
   or longer deadline.
   
   
   
   (f)  	A requirement that the applicant disclose in a written statement, the
   truth of which is sworn or attested to by the applicant, whether the
   applicant, or where applicable, any of its officers, partners, principals,
   members, associates or key employees, within the last three (3) years prior to
   the date of the application, has:
   
   
   
   
   
   Been indicted or had charges brought against them (if still pending) and/or
   been convicted of:
   
   
   
   
   
   any crime or offense arising directly or indirectly from the conduct of the
   applicant’s organization, or
   
   
   
   (ii) 	any crime or offense involving financial misconduct or fraud; or
   
   
   
   
   
   Been the subject of legal proceedings arising directly from the provision of
   services by the organization.
   
   (g)   If any response to the disclosures require in Section 1806.1(f) is in
   the affirmative, the applicant shall fully describe such indictments, charges,
   convictions, or legal proceedings (and the status and disposition thereof) and
   surrounding circumstances in writing and provide documentation of the
   circumstances.

   1806.2. Each RFA shall contain the following terms and conditions:
   
   (a)  	Funding for this award is contingent on continued funding from the
   grantor.  The RFA does not commit the Department to make an award.
   
   
   
   (b)  	The Department reserves the right to accept or deny any or all
   applications if the Department determines it is in the best interest of the
   Department to do so. The Department shall notify the applicant if it rejects
   that applicant’s proposal. The Department may suspend or terminate an
   outstanding RFA pursuant to its own grant making rule(s) or any applicable
   federal regulation or requirement.
   
   
   
   (c)  	The Department reserves the right to issue addenda and/or amendments
   subsequent to the issuance of the RFA, or to rescind the RFA.
   
   
   
   (d)      The Department shall not be liable for any costs incurred in the
   preparation of applications in response to the RFA.  Applicant agrees that
   all costs incurred in developing the application are the applicant’s sole
   responsibility.
   
   (e) 	The Department may conduct pre-award on-site visits to verify information
   submitted in the application and to determine if the applicant’s facilities
   are appropriate for the services intended.
   
   (f) 	The Department may enter into negotiations with an applicant and 	adopt a
   firm funding amount or other revision of the applicant’s proposal that may
   result from negotiations.
   
   (g) 	The Department shall provide the citations to the statute and
   implementing regulations that authorize the grant or subgrant including all
   applicable federal and District regulations.
   
   (h) 	The Department shall describe payment provisions identifying how the
   grantee will be paid for performing under the award; reporting requirements,
   including programmatic, financial and any special reports required by the
   granting Department; and compliance conditions that must be met by the
   grantee.
   
   (i)  	If there are any conflicts between the terms and conditions of the RFA
   and any applicable federal or local law or regulation, or any ambiguity
   related thereto, then the provisions of the applicable law or regulation shall
   control and it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to ensure
   compliance.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 481 (January 24, 1997); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 5614 (April 12, 2013); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 15243 (November 1, 2013).
