                                  DC REGULATIONS

CLINICAL FELLOWSHIP REQUIREMENTS (§ 17-7903)

7903.1. A person completing the clinical fellowship requirements shall have a
   Master’s or Doctoral degree and shall commence a clinical fellowship within
   2 years from the date of conferral of the degree, and shall complete the
   clinical fellowship within three and a half (3.5) years from the date of
   conferral of the degree.

   7903.2. The Board may extend the period of clinical fellowship for good cause
   shown.
   
   
   
   7903.3 	The Board may accept completion of the clinical fellowship required
   for the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association Certificate of Clinical
   Competence as meeting the requirements for clinical fellowship in this
   chapter.

   7903.4. To complete a clinical fellowship, the clinical fellow shall be
   employed, with or without direct compensation, as a professional in the field
   of speech-language pathology under general supervision for a period of not
   less than nine (9) months with a minimum of thirty (30) hours of work per
   week.  This requirement may also be met with part-time employment as follows:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Fifteen (15) to nineteen (19) hours a week, for a period of eighteen (18)
   months;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Twenty (20) to twenty-four (24) hours a week, for a period of fifteen (15)
   months; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Twenty-five (25) to twenty-nine (29) hours a week, for a period of twelve (12)
   months.
   
   
   
   7903.5 	At least eighty percent (80%) of the clinical fellow’s clinical
   fellowship shall involve direct client contact, which includes the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Assessment, diagnosis, evaluation, and treatment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Screening;
   
   
   
   
   
   Habilitation and rehabilitation; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Activities related to case management.
   
   
   
   7903.6 	The remaining twenty percent (20%) shall be comprised of supervised
   activities such as writing, research or planning.

   7903.7. The activities included in a clinical fellowship shall consist of the
   following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conducting evaluations and treatment procedures;
   
   
   
   (b)  	Interpreting test results;
   
   
   
   (c)  	Determining case selections;
   
   
   
   (d)  	Designing treatment programs;
   
   
   
   (e)  	Collecting data and documenting performance;
   
   
   
   (f)   	Maintaining clinical records;
   
   
   
   (g)  	Providing written or oral reports (progress notes, diagnostic reports)
   regarding patients’ or clients’ status;
   
   
   
   (h)   	Making referrals; and
   
   
   
   (i)  	Participating in case conferences.

   7903.8. Clinical fellow supervisor shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Hold a valid District of Columbia license in speech-language pathology, a
   license in another jurisdiction with requirements substantially similar to the
   licensure requirements in the District, or, if in a state that does not
   require licensure, a Certificate of Clinical Competence in speech-language
   pathology from the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Have been in practice for a minimum of two (2) years after licensure or
   certification;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not supervise more than three (3) clinical fellows at one (1) time;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not have been disciplined by a board or regulating body within the previous
   five (5) years; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provide a minimum of thirty-six (36) hours of supervisory activities during
   the clinical fellowship, including a minimum of two (2) hours of monitoring
   activities each month.

   7903.9. A clinical fellow supervisor in the District of Columbia shall be
   responsible for the services and care provided by the clinical fellow, and
   shall also be subject to disciplinary action for any violation of federal or
   District of Columbia laws or regulations by the clinical fellow.

   7903.10. An applicant for a license shall demonstrate qualifications required
   by §§ 7903.3–7903.6 by submitting, with the application, a signed
   statement from each clinical fellow supervisor who supervised the applicant
   during the required clinical fellowship period, which sets forth the
   following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The number of hours of the applicant’s supervised practice of
   speech-language pathology;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The number of hours of general supervision of the applicant;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The specific nature of responsibilities included in the applicant’s
   practice;
   
   
   
   
   
   The rating of the applicant’s performance;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Where and when the supervision occurred; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The license number and jurisdiction in which the clinical fellow supervisor
   was licensed during the supervised period, or proof that the clinical fellow
   supervisor has a Certificate of Clinical Competence if the clinical fellowship
   was in a state that does not require licensure.

   7903.11. A clinical fellow supervisor in the District of Columbia shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Submit a notification of supervision to the Board at least two (2) weeks prior
   to the commencement of the clinical fellowship;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Notify the Board, in writing, if the c1inical fellow leaves the clinical
   fellowship prior to completing training and specify the reason for leaving.
   Notification shall be provided to the Board no later than ten (10) business
   days after the date the clinical fellow leaves the clinical fellowship; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Notify the Board, in writing, if the clinical fellow changes his or her
   clinical fellow supervisor and specify the reason for the change. 
   Notification shall be provided to the Board no later than ten (10) business
   days after the change of the clinical fellow supervisor.

   7903.12. A clinical fellow may participate in patient care activities under
   the general supervision of a speech-language pathologist who is licensed in
   the District of Columbia, if  clinical fellow’s supervisor properly
   submitted notification to the Board in accordance with § 7903.11(a).

   7903.13. A clinical fellow in speech-language pathology shall identify himself
   or herself as a clinical fellow at all times when providing speech-language
   pathology services.

   7903.14. A clinical fellow in speech-language pathology may practice in the
   District of Columbia, pursuant to this Section, for a maximum of eighteen (18)
   months, unless the Board extends the period for good cause shown.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 7314 (September 4, 2009); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 14806 (October 18, 2013).
