                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 17-7999)

7999.1. As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
   ascribed:
   
   
   
   Applicant – a person applying for a license to practice speech-language
   pathology under this chapter.
   
   
   
   Board – the Board of Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology.
   
   
   
   Clinical fellow – a person who is completing the clinical fellowship
   requirements set forth under 17 DCMR § 7903.
   
   
   
   Clinical fellow supervisor – a person who is the supervisor of a clinical
   fellow.
   
   
   
   Direct supervision – supervision in which the supervisor is immediately
   available on the premises and within vocal communication either directly or by
   a communication device.
   
   
   
   Dual licensure renewal – renewal of both an audiology and a speech-language
   pathology license in the District of Columbia, within the same renewal period.
   
   
   
   General supervision – supervision in which the supervisor is available to
   the person supervised, either in person or by a communications device.
   
   
   
   Good cause – serious illness of the applicant, the death or serious illness
   of a member of the applicant’s immediate family, or other cause sufficient
   to the Board.
   
   
   
   Graduate student – a person enrolled in a Master’s or Doctoral degree
   program in speech-language pathology.
   
   
   
   Practice of speech-language pathology – means the application of principles,
   methods, or procedures related to the development and disorders of human
   communication, including any condition, whether of organic or non-organic
   origin, that impedes the normal process of human communication including
   disorders and related disorders of speech, articulation, fluency, voice, oral,
   or written language; auditory comprehension and processing; oral, pharyngeal
   or laryngeal sensorimotor competencies; swallowing; auditory or visual
   processing; auditory or visual memory or cognition; communication; and
   assisted augmentative communication treatment and devices.  The term
   “practice of speech language pathology” also includes the planning,
   directing, supervising, and conducting of a habilitative and rehabilitative
   counseling program for individuals or groups of individuals who have, or are
   suspected of having, disorders of communication, and any service in
   speech-language pathology including prevention, identification, evaluation,
   consultation, habilitation or rehabilitation, instruction or research.  The
   practice of speech-language pathology may include pure-tone air conduction
   hearing screening, screening of tympanometry, and acoustic reflex screening,
   limited to a pass-or-fail determination for the identification of individuals
   with other disorders of communication and may also include aural habilitation
   or rehabilitation, which means the provision of services and procedures for
   facilitating adequate auditory, speech, and language skills in individuals
   with hearing impairment.  The practice of speech-language pathology does not
   include the practice of medicine or osteopathic medicine, or the performance
   of a task in the normal practice of medicine or osteopathic medicine by a
   person to whom the task is delegated by a licensed physician.
   
   
   
   Clinical fellowship- the experience required by Section 7903 of these
   regulations.
   
   
   
   Supervisor – a speech-language pathologist who is qualified pursuant to
   Section 7903.7 and who is providing general supervision to an individual
   completing the clinical fellowship requirements, or a speech language
   pathologist who is qualified pursuant to § 7912.9 and who is providing direct
   supervision to a graduate student under § 7912.
   
   
   
   Supervisee- an individual who is completing the clinical fellowship
   requirements.

   7999.2. The definitions in § 4099 of Chapter 40 of this title are
   incorporated by reference into and are applicable to this chapter.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 7314 (September 4, 2009); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 14806 (October 18, 2013).
