                                  DC REGULATIONS

ETHICAL CONDUCT (§ 3-5202)

5202.1. A member or employee of the Board shall not directly or indirectly
   give any person who is not a member or employee of the Board access to
   official information obtained through or in connection with his or her
   employment which has not been released to the general public or which is not a
   matter of public record.

   5202.2. A member or employee of the Board shall not solicit or accept, either
   directly or through the intercession of others, any fee, gift, gratuity,
   favor, loan, entertainment, or other thing of monetary value from any person,
   organization or entity which has done or is doing any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Has obtained, or is seeking to obtain, contractual or other business or
   	financial relationships with the Board;
   
   
   
   (b)	Conducts operations or activities that are regulated or examined by the
   	Board; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Has interests that may be favorably affected by the action or inaction of
   	the member employee in the performance of his or her official duties.

   5202.3. The restrictions set forth in § 5202.2 shall not apply to any of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Bona fide personal relationships, such as those that exist between an
   	employee or member and his or her parents, children, or spouse;
   
   
   
   (b)	The acceptance of loans from financial institutions on customary terms to
   	finance the acquisition of a car, home, appliance, or other personal items;
   	or
   
   
   
   (c)	The acceptance of unsolicited advertising or promotional materials such as
   	pens, pencils, note pads, calendars, and like items of nominal intrinsic
   	value.

   5202.4. A member or employee of the Board shall not use his or her status as a
   member to directly or indirectly attempt to influence any decision of the
   District government relating to any action that is not within the Board’s
   purview.

   5202.5. A member or employee of the Board shall not directly or indirectly use
   or allow the use of government property of any kind, including office
   machines, motor vehicles, materials, supplies, or funds, for other than
   officially approved activities.

   5202.6. Without prior approval of the Board, a member or employee of the Board
   shall not accept any reimbursement for expenses or receive any other
   honorarium or fee for any service, speech, or other activity which is rendered
   as a result of his or her official duties with the Board, whether or not such
   activities were performed during official working hours.

   5202.7. Board members and employees shall not engage in any employment or
   outside activity which is incompatible with the full and proper discharge of
   their government responsibilities.

   5202.8. No Board member or employee shall do indirectly (by, through, or with
   other persons) those acts or actions which the Board member or employee are
   prohibited from doing directly under the restrictions set forth in this
   chapter.

   5202.9. No Board member may serve if, during the member&#8217;s tenure on the
   Board, he or she is convicted of having committed a felony in the District of
   Columbia, or if the crime is committed elsewhere, convicted of an offense that
   would have been a felony if it had been committed in the District of Columbia.

   5202.10. An employee shall promptly report to his or her immediate supervisor
   any attempt to direct or otherwise unlawfully influence the discharge of that
   employee’s official duties.

   5202.11. A member of the Board or employee of the Board must refrain from
   acting on or discussing, formally or informally, a matter before the Board if
   the matter relates to, or may personally or financially benefit, that Board
   member or employee, their immediate family, or a business with which they are
   associated.

   5202.12. A member of the Board or employee of the Board must refrain from
   acting on or discussing, formally or informally, a matter before the Board if
   his or her impartiality might reasonably be questioned, including but not
   limited to circumstances where the Board member or employee:
   
   
   
   (a)	Personally and substantially participated in the matter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Is a material witness concerning the matter;
   
   
   
   (c)	Has material, personal knowledge about the matter;
   
   
   
   (d)	Has a personal bias or prejudice concerning a party or party’s lawyer or
   	representative; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Has made a public statement, other than in a Board proceeding or opinion,
   	that commits or appears to commit the Board member or employee to 	reach a
   particular result or rule in a particular way in the matter.

   5202.13. If a member of the Board must withdraw from a matter before the
   Board, that member shall make a statement at a public meeting of the Board
   identifying the reason or reasons for the withdrawal.  If the matter relates
   to a preliminary investigation, the name of the individual who is the subject
   of the investigation shall not be disclosed without the individual’s
   consent.

   5202.14. If an employee of the Board must withdraw from a matter before the
   Board, that employee shall notify the Director of Government Ethics, in
   writing, of the reason or reasons for the withdrawal.

   5202.15. If the Director of Government Ethics must withdraw from a matter
   before the Board, the Director shall notify the Chairman of the Board, in
   writing, of the reason or reasons for the withdrawal.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 739 (January 25, 2013).
