                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECONSIDERATION (ยง 27-117)

117.1. A party to an appeal or a protest may by motion request the Board to
   reconsider its decision or order for the reasons stated below:
   
   
   
   (a)	To clarify the decision;
   
   
   
   (b)	To present newly discovered evidence which by due diligence could not have
   been presented to the Board prior to the rendering of its decision;
   
   
   
   (c)	If the decision contains typographical, numerical, technical or other
   clear errors that are evidence on their face; or
   
   
   
   (d)	If the decision contains errors of fact or law, except that parties shall
   not present arguments substantially identical to those already considered and
   rejected by the Board.

   117.2. For appeals, a motion for reconsideration shall be filed within (30)
   thirty days after the Board&#8217;s decision or order is transmitted to a
   party. For protests, a motion for reconsideration shall be filed within the
   time period set forth in Rule 313.2.

   117.3. A motion for reconsideration shall set forth the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The particular points of fact or law which the moving party believes the
   Board has overlooked or misapprehended;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any argument the moving party wishes to make in support of the motion; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The relief sought and the reasons for seeking the relief.

   117.4. For appeals, a party may file an opposition to a motion for
   reconsideration no later than fifteen (15) days after the motion is served.
   For protests, a party may file an opposition within the time period set forth
   in Rule 313.2.

   117.5. If a motion for reconsideration is granted, the Board may make a final
   disposition of the case without reargument, permit reargument, or issue an
   appropriate order regarding further proceedings.

   117.6. A motion of reconsideration does not affect the finality of the
   Board&#8217;s decision or suspend its operation except that the Board may stay
   its decision for good cause shown.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
