                                  DC REGULATIONS

MOTIONS PRACTICE (ยง 27-110)

110.1. Every application to the Board for an order or other relief shall be by
   motion. Before filing any motion, the moving party shall first ascertain
   whether other affected parties will consent to the relief sought. Only when
   the movant certifies in writing that despite diligent efforts consent could
   not be obtained, will the Board consider the motion as a contested matter. If
   the relief sought is consented to but requires Board approval, the moving
   party shall serve the other parties and file with the Board a motion which
   includes the word &#8220;Consent&#8221; in its title and states that all
   affected parties have consented to the relief sought.

   110.2. With the exception of a motion made during a hearing or conference, all
   motions shall be in writing, unless otherwise directed by the Board. A motion
   shall be accompanied by a statement of its purpose, the grounds on which it is
   based, and the reasons for the order or relief sought.

   110.3. A written motion shall include on separate page(s) following the
   signature page a proposed order for the Board&#8217;s signature including, if
   paper filed, a list of all parties, and their current addresses.

   110.4. A motion shall include within its body a statement setting forth
   specific points and authorities to support the motion, including a concise
   statement of facts material to the issues raised in the motion. No separate
   memorandum of points and authorities shall be required.

   110.5. A memorandum of opposing points and authorities may be filed with the
   Board and served on a party no later than ten (10) days after service of the
   motion or within a larger or shorter time as the Board may grant or order. If
   a statement of opposing points and authorities is not filed within the
   prescribed time, the Board may treat the motion as conceded.

   110.6. A reply memorandum may be filed by the moving party.

   110.7. The Board may decide a motion without a hearing, or may order a hearing
   on a motion upon the application of either party.

   110.8. Despite the provisions of Rule 110.5, for good cause shown, the Board
   may act upon a motion at any time without waiting for a response to the motion
   by the opposing party.

   110.9. If a moving party fails to appear at a hearing on its motion, the Board
   may treat the motion as withdrawn and the motion may be refiled only with the
   permission of the Board. If the opposing party fails to appear at the hearing,
   the Board may treat the motion as conceded.

   110.10. In addition to the statement of points and authorities required by
   Rule 110.4 to be included within the body of the motion, a motion for summary
   judgment shall also include within the motion a separate statement of the
   material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine
   issue.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
