                                  DC REGULATIONS

CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE JUDGE (CHAIRPERSON) (ยง 27-102)

102.1. The chairperson of the Board shall serve as the Chief Administrative
   Judge of the Board.

   102.2. In addition to participating in the hearing of cases, the Chief
   Administrative Judge shall oversee the administrative activities of the Board
   and shall provide, within approved budgetary ceilings, for the staffing of the
   Board with nonmember personnel. These persons shall be responsible to and
   shall function under the direction, supervision, and control of the Chief
   Administrative Judge.

   102.3. In the case of a vacancy in the position of the Chief Administrative
   Judge, or his or her absence of disability, the administrative judge who has
   the senior length of service shall serve as the Acting Chief Administrative
   Judge and exercise all of the authority, duties, and responsibilities of the
   Chief Administrative Judge.

   102.4. When by reason of a vacancy, disability, or absence, neither the Chief
   Administrative Judge nor the member who has the senior length of service is
   available to exercise the duties of the Chief Administrative Judge, the
   administrative judge next in length of service shall serve as the Acting Chief
   Administrative Judge. Should there not be an administrative judge with a
   senior length of service, the Chief Administrative Judge shall designate a
   Board member to serve as Acting Chief Administrative Judge.

   102.5. The Chief Administrative Judge shall assign and, as necessary, reassign
   cases and administrative judges to panels and shall designate one of the panel
   members as the presiding judge having the lead responsibility for the
   management of a particular case.

   102.6. The Chief Administrative Judge may authorize the performance by another
   administrative judge or Board employee of any function of the Chief
   Administrative Judge, except that, as provided by law, only administrative
   judges may hear and decide cases. The attendance of at least two members of
   the Board shall constitute a quorum.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
