                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPEARANCE AND REPRESENTATION (ยง 27-106)

106.1. In a proceeding before the Board, an individual, receiver, or trustee
   may appear in his or her behalf; a general partner of a partnership may
   represent the partnership; and an officer of a corporation may represent the
   corporation. The Attorney General for the District of Columbia shall represent
   the District. Independent agencies of the District of Columbia may be
   represented by agency counsel.

   106.2. A party may be represented in a proceeding by an attorney at law
   admitted to practice before the District of Columbia Court of Appeals or
   before the highest court of the state where he or she resides or maintains an
   office.

   106.3. An individual appearing before or transacting business with the Board
   in a representative capacity pursuant to the provisions of Rule 106.1 may be
   required to establish his or her authority to act in that capacity.

   106.4. Notice of Appearance. Each person, including an Assistant Attorney
   General, representing a party in a case pending before the Board shall file
   with the Board a written notice of appearance containing the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The signature of the representative;
   
   
   
   (b)	The typed or printed name of the representative;
   
   
   
   (c)	The business address and telephone number of the representative; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The name of the party for whom the appearance is made.

   106.5. The notice of appearance shall become a part of the record.

   106.6. Each person who has entered an appearance shall be deemed to continue
   as representative of the named party unless there is filed with the Board any
   of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A notice of withdrawal of appearance signed by both the representative and
   the party; or
   
   
   
   (b)	A notice signed by the party stating that the representation has been
   concluded, together with proof of service upon the representative; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A notice of substitution of a representative that conforms to the
   requirements of Rule 106.4.

   106.7. If two or more persons have entered their appearance for a party,
   service on one representative shall be service on the party, unless one of the
   representatives has been designated for service.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
