                                  DC REGULATIONS

FORM AND FILING OF PLEADINGS, MOTIONS, AND OTHER SUBMISSIONS (ยง 27-107)

107.1
   
   
   
   (a)	There shall be no filing fees.
   
   
   
   (b)	An original and two (2) copies of all paper protests, agency reports,
   notices of appeal, complaints, answers, motions, and responses thereto, shall
   be filed with the Board. All paper filings shall contain proof of service, in
   accord with Rule 109.
   
   
   
   (c)	Electronic filings shall be made pursuant to Chapter 4. No proof of
   service shall be required for conforming electronic filings.

   107.2. A filing may be made by mail, hand-delivery or electronically, unless
   otherwise ordered by the Board. Irrespective of the method used for filing, a
   submission shall only be considered timely filed if it is actually received in
   the Board&#8217;s office during business hours or received by the electronic
   filing vendor within the time established by law, regulation, or Board order.

   107.3. Notices of appeal, protests, and other pleadings shall, on the first
   page, contain a caption setting forth the name of the Board, title of the
   case, and contain a heading under the caption describing the nature of the
   pleading, motion, or matter being brought to the attention of the Board. The
   caption and heading shall be in the following format:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   GOVERNMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CONTRACT APPEALS BOARD
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   [PROTEST] OR [APPEAL] OF:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   [NAME OF PROTESTER or APPELLANT]
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   )
   
   
   
   
   
   )
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   CAB No.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   [ADDRESS OF PROTESTER or APPELLANT]
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   )
   
   
   
   
   
   )
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Under [IFB or RFP] or [Contract] No.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   )
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   [HEADING]

   107.4. In addition to the requirements of Rule 107.3, the initial filing by or
   on behalf of a party shall have in the caption the name and full business or
   residence address of the party. If the party is appearing pro se (without an
   attorney), the caption shall also include the party&#8217;s business or
   residence telephone number. In the initial filing by a non-governmental
   corporate body party, the party shall file a corporate disclosure statement
   identifying all parent companies, subsidiaries (except wholly-owned
   subsidiaries), and affiliates that have issued shares to the public.

   107.5. A submission signed by an attorney shall contain the name, office
   address, telephone number, and bar identification number of the attorney.
   Notice of a change in address or telephone number of the attorney, or a party
   not represented by an attorney, shall be filed within five (5) business days
   of the change.

   107.6. Unless they are changed by a notice filed with the Board, the address
   and telephone number of a party or any attorney noted on the first filing
   shall be conclusively taken as the last known address and telephone number of
   the party or attorney.
   
   
   
   107.7
   
   
   
   (a)	The original of a paper submission that is filed with the Board shall be
   signed in ink by the party, its attorney, or its authorized representative.
   
   
   
   (b)	The original of a document filed electronically shall be signed in ink by
   the party, its attorney, or authorized representative and maintained by the
   party filing the document.

   107.8. All submissions filed shall be typed (double spaced), reproduced by any
   duplicating or copying process that produces a clear black image on white 8
   1/2 x 11 inch size paper, and fastened at the top.

   107.9. A submission shall not include documents that are not relevant to the
   case. Irrelevant documents shall be rejected by the Board.

   107.10. Submissions that do not conform to the requirements of this Rule may
   be rejected either before or after filing. If the submission is rejected after
   filing, the effect shall be the same as if it had not been filed.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
