                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUBPOENAS (ยง 27-114)

114.1. A party is expected to cooperate in good faith by making available
   witnesses and evidence under the party&#8217;s control, when requested by
   another party, without issuance of a subpoena and by securing the voluntary
   attendance of third-party witnesses and the production of evidence by third
   parties.

   114.2. The presiding judge may issue, on his or her initiative or upon written
   motion of a party, a subpoena that commands the person to whom it is directed
   to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Attend and give testimony at a deposition;
   
   
   
   (b)	Attend and give testimony at a hearing; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Produce the books, papers, documents, and other tangible things designated
   in the subpoena.

   114.3. A request for subpoena shall state the relevancy, materiality, and
   scope of the testimony or documentary evidence sought, including, as to
   documentary evidence, the identification of all documents desired and the
   facts to be proved by them in sufficient detail to indicate materiality and
   relevancy.

   114.4. The party requesting a subpoena shall arrange for its service. The
   service shall be made as soon as practicable after the subpoena has been
   issued.

   114.5. A subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness at a deposition or
   hearing may be served at any place consistent with the rules of the D.C.
   Superior Court. A subpoena may be served by registered or certified mail, by a
   United States Marshal or his or her deputy, or by any other person who is not
   a party and is not less than 18 years of age.

   114.6. The service of a subpoena upon a person named in the subpoena shall be
   made by personally delivering a copy to that person and tendering the fees for
   one day&#8217;s attendance and the mileage allowed by law. However, where the
   subpoena is issued on behalf of the District government, the fees and mileage
   allowance need not be tendered in advance of attendance.

   114.7. The person serving the subpoena shall make proof of the service to the
   Board promptly, and, in any event, before the date on which the person served
   must respond to the subpoena. The proof of service shall be made by completing
   and executing the &#8220;Return on Service&#8221; portion of a duplicate copy
   of the subpoena issued by an administrative judge and returning it to the
   Board. If service is made by a person other than a United States Marshal or
   his or her deputy, that person shall make an affidavit as proof by executing
   the &#8220;Return on Service&#8221; in the presence of a notary.

   114.8. Upon written motion by the person subpoenaed or by a party, made within
   ten (10) days after service, but in any event not later than the time
   specified in the subpoena for compliance, the Board may:
   
   
   
   (a)	Quash or modify the subpoena if it is unreasonable and oppressive or for
   other good cause shown; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Require the party in whose behalf the subpoena was issued to advance the
   reasonable cost of producing subpoenaed documentary evidence.

   114.9. In a case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena by a person who
   resides, is found, or transacts business within the jurisdiction of the D.C.
   Superior Court, the Board shall apply to the D.C. Superior Court for an order
   requiring the person to appear before the Board to give testimony, produce
   evidence, or both. If a person fails to obey the order, without adequate
   excuse, the Board may apply for an order that the person be held in contempt
   by the Court.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
