                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROVIDER AND SUPPLIER TERMINATION OR DENIAL OF ENROLLMENT (§ 29-9410)

9410.1. In accordance with 42 C.F.R. §§ 455.416(a)-(f), DHCF shall initiate
   termination of the Provider Agreement, or deny the Application, of any
   provider or supplier when any of the following occurs:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Termination of a provider or supplier on or after January 1, 2011, under Title
   XVIII of the Social Security Act, or under the Medicaid program or
   Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) in any state;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Failure to cooperate with screening methods and submit timely and accurate
   information by any individual with a five percent (5%) or greater direct or
   indirect ownership interest in a provider or supplier;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conviction of a criminal offense related to Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP in the
   last ten (10) years related to any individual with a five percent (5%) or
   greater direct or indirect ownership interest in a provider or supplier,
   unless DHCF determines that denial or termination is not in the best interests
   of the District’s Medicaid program and documents this determination in
   writing;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Failure to submit timely and accurate information by any individual with an
   ownership or control interest, or who is an agent or managing employee of the
   provider or supplier, unless DHCF determines that denial or termination is not
   in the best interests of the District’s Medicaid program and documents this
   determination in writing;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Failure of individuals with a five percent (5%) or greater direct or indirect
   ownership interest in a provider or supplier to submit fingerprints upon
   request, in a form and manner determined by DHCF, within thirty (30) days from
   the date of the request, unless DHCF determines that denial or termination is
   not in the best interests of the District’s Medicaid program and documents
   this determination in writing; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Failure to permit access to provider or supplier’s locations for any site
   visit required pursuant to 42 C.F.R. § 455.432, unless DHCF determines that
   denial or termination is not in the best interests of the District’s
   Medicaid program and documents this determination in writing.

   9410.2. In accordance with 42 C.F.R. § 455.416(g), DHCF may terminate the
   enrollment, or deny an Application, of any provider or supplier if CMS or DHCF
   finds either of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Applicant falsified any information provided on the Application; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Applicant’s identity cannot be verified.

   9410.3. DHCF shall enforce all terminations that result from the Secretary of
   the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services mandatorily excluding
   individuals or entities from participating in any Federal or state health care
   program, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7(a), for the any of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conviction of program-related crimes;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conviction relating to patient abuse;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Felony conviction relating to health care fraud; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Felony conviction relating to a controlled substance.

   9410.4. DHCF shall enforce all terminations that result from the Secretary of
   the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services permissively excluding
   individuals and entities from participating in any Federal or state health
   care program, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7(b), for any of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conviction relating to fraud, theft, embezzlement, breach of fiduciary
   responsibility, or other financial misconduct;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Conviction in connection with the interference with, or obstruction of, any
   investigation or audit related to the use of funds received, directly or
   indirectly, from any Federally funded health care program;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Misdemeanor conviction relating to a controlled substance;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   License revocation or suspension by a State licensing authority, including
   surrendering of such a license held while formal disciplinary proceeding is
   pending;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Exclusion, suspension, or sanction from any Federal or State program involving
   the provision of health care, including programs administered by the
   Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Submission of claims reflecting excessive charges and/or unnecessary services;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Failure to provide medically necessary services, and thereby adversely
   impacting covered individuals;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Committing acts that constitute fraud, facilitate kickbacks, and/or support
   other prohibited activities, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320a-7a, 1320a-7b, or
   1320a-8;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Allowing a sanctioned individual to hold a five percent (5%) or more direct or
   indirect ownership or control interest, serve as an officer, director, agent,
   or managing employee;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Allowing an individual to hold a direct or indirect ownership or control
   interest in a sanctioned entity when the individual knows, or should know, of
   the action that resulted in conviction or exclusion from Medicare or a state
   health care program;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Failure to disclose information required to process an Application or
   revalidate enrollment, including requested information on subcontractors
   and/or suppliers;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Failure to permit examination of records supporting payment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Failure to grant immediate access, upon reasonable request, to the Secretary,
   or designee; the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
   Services; or representatives of DHCF or the Medicaid Fraud Control Unit;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Failure of a hospital to comply substantially with corrective action commenced
   in accordance with 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(f)(2)(B);
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Default on health education loan or scholarship obligations by an individual,
   except physicians who provide unique services to the community serviced; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Making false statements or misrepresentation of material facts in any
   application, agreement, bid, or contract to participate or enroll as a
   provider or supplier under a Federal health care program.

   9410.5. As set forth in 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320a-7(c)-(g), DHCF shall adhere to
   Federal guidelines governing terminations that occur pursuant to Subsections
   9410.4 and 9410.5.

   9410.6. Nothing in this section shall supersede or lessen the force of any
   other laws or regulations that govern provider participation in the Medicaid
   program, including the False Claims Act, effective February 21, 1986 (D.C. Law
   6-85; D.C. Official Code § 2-381.02 (2008 Repl.)).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10041 (July 12, 2013).
