                                  DC REGULATIONS

MEDICAID PROVIDER[SLASH]SUPPLIER APPLICATION (§ 29-9401)

9401.1. An Applicant shall submit a completed Application to DHCF, or its
   designee.  The Application shall correspond to the appropriate category of
   provider and designated level of risk that DHCF assigns to the provider type.

   9401.2. In accordance with Section 1128J€ of the Social Security Act (42
   U.S.C. § 1320a-7k(e)) and 42 C.F.R. § 431.107(b)(5), each Applicant shall
   obtain a National Provider Identification (NPI) number from the U.S.
   Department of Health and Human Services and ensure the NPI is provided on the
   Application submitted to DHCF.

   9401.3. In addition to the Application, an out-of-District Applicant shall
   also submit the following, if applicable to the Applicant’s corporate
   structure:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The name of its registered agent, in accordance with D.C. Official Code §§
   29-104.01 et seq., the business address, and telephone number of the
   registered agent;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Proof of a physical business address and a business telephone number within
   the District of Columbia listed under the name of the business for the purpose
   of providing Medicaid services and sales; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Medicaid provider number, supplier numbers from the state where the
   out-of-state business’ principal place of business is located and/or the
   active Medicare supplier number.

   9401.4. DHCF shall review an Applicant’s signed and finished Application
   within thirty (30) business days from the date it was received by DHCF.  DHCF
   shall return a provider application package to the Applicant when DHCF
   determines the provider application package to be incomplete or to contain
   incorrect information.  DHCF shall allow resubmission for incomplete or
   incorrect information a maximum of two (2) times within the same twelve (12)
   month period.

   9401.5. DHCF may deny an Application through the screening process if DHCF
   determines that an Applicant has any of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A conviction for  a criminal offense that relates to the delivery of goods or
   services to a Medicaid beneficiary;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A conviction for any criminal offense that relates to a violation of fiduciary
   responsibility or financial misconduct;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Committed a violation of applicable Federal, state, or District laws or
   regulations governing Medicaid programs;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Been excluded, suspended, or terminated from any program administered under
   Titles XVIII, XIX, and XXI of the Social Security Act;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Been excluded, suspended, or terminated from any program managed by the
   District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Been previously found by a licensing, certifying, or professional standards
   board to have violated the standards or conditions relating to licensure or
   certification of the services provided;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Made a false representation or omission of any material fact in making the
   application;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Demonstrated an inability to provide services, conduct business, or operate a
   financially viable entity; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Has had a provider application package returned by DHCF three (3) times in the
   past twelve (12) months due to incomplete or incorrect information.

   9401.6. DHCF may deny an Application based on the current availability of
   services or supplies for beneficiaries taking into account geographic location
   and reasonable travel time and the number of providers of the same type of
   service or supplies enrolled in the same geographic area.

   9401.7. DHCF shall deny an Application in accordance with § 9410.1.

   9401.8. For a first-time Applicant to be a District Medicaid Provider, if the
   Application is denied, the Applicant shall not submit a new Application to
   DHCF sooner than one (1) year after the date that DHCF notified the Applicant
   of the denial.

   9401.9. For an Applicant subject to revalidation, if the Application is
   denied, the Applicant shall not submit a new Application to DHCF sooner than
   two (2) years after the date that DHCF notified the applicant of the denial.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Application shall not be considered to be a Provider Agreement.

   9401.11. The Provider Agreement shall be signed by the Director, or a
   designee.  Upon approval of the Application, DHCF shall send the Applicant a
   welcome letter that shall indicate the effective date of the Provider
   Agreement.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10041 (July 12, 2013).
