                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRACTICE OF PSYCHOLOGY BY STUDENTS, GRADUATES, OR PERSONS SEEKING RE-LICENSURE
(§ 17-6911)

A student, graduate, or person seeking re-licensure shall practice only
   
   		under the general or immediate supervision of a psychologist, psychiatrist,
   
   		or independent clinical social worker licensed in the District under the Act
   
   		and in accordance with this section.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Only the following persons shall be authorized to practice under this
   
   		section:
   
   
   
   		(a)	Students whose practice fulfills educational requirement under
   § 				103(c) of the Act, D.C. Official Code § 3-1201.03 (2001), and
   
   			§ 6902;
   
   
   
   		(b)	Students whose practice is not in fulfillment of educational
   					requirements, if the student arranges for submission to the Board 				of
   a letter from the student’s educational institution that certifies 				that
   the student is actively completing a doctoral program and that 				the
   institution has no objection to the student’s practice;
   
   
   
                           (c) 	Graduates fulfilling postdoctoral experience
   requirements under
   
   	§ 504(o)(2) of the Act, D.C. Official Code § 3-1205.04(o)(2) 		(2001), and
   § 6902 or during the pendency of the graduate’s
   
   	initial application for a license under this chapter; and
   
   
   
   		(d)	A person seeking re-licensure pursuant to § 6906.14(c).

   6911.3. A person who has been denied a license or disciplined in the District
   of 			Columbia or other jurisdiction in the United States may not practice
   			pursuant to this section unless authorized by the Board in writing to do
   so.

   6911.4. A supervisor shall, no later than two (2) weeks after supervising a
   student, 			graduate, or person seeking re-licensure, inform the Board in
   writing of 			the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The supervisor’s name and address;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The name of the student, graduate, or person seeking re-licensure;
   
   (c)	The expected period of supervision; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The nature and location of the practice of the student,
   
   			graduate, or person seeking re-licensure.

   6911.5. A student, graduate, or person seeking re-licensure shall identify
   himself 	or herself as a student, graduate, or person seeking re-licensure to
   a client
   
   		before practicing psychology with the client.

   6911.6. At least five percent (5%) of supervised practice during any one (1)
   month 		period shall be under immediate supervision.

   6911.7. A graduate may not practice under this section for more than three (3)
   			years, or beyond the graduate’s completion of the postdoctoral experience
   			requirement, whichever is less, unless the practice is during the pendency
   			of an initial application by the graduate for a license under this chapter.
   			The Board may, in its discretion, extend the three (3) year limit for good
   			cause shown.

   6911.8. A student, graduate, or person seeking re-licensure shall not receive
   	compensation of any nature, directly or indirectly, from a patient.  The
   	student, graduate, or person seeking re-licensure may receive a salary or
   	other form of compensation from his or her employer based on hours 	worked in
   the training program.

   6911.9. A supervisor shall be fully responsible for all supervised practice by
   a 			student, graduate, or person seeking re-licensure during the period of
   		supervision, and shall be subject to disciplinary action for any violation
   of 			the Act or this chapter by the student, graduate, or person seeking
   re-			licensure.

   6911.10. A student, graduate, or person seeking re-licensure shall be subject
   to
   
   		all applicable provisions of the Act and this chapter.  The Board may deny
   
   		an application for a license by, or take other disciplinary action against,
   a
   
   		student, graduate, or person seeking re-licensure who is found to have
   			violated the Act or this chapter, in accordance with chapter 41 of this
   
   		title.

   6911.11. For the purposes of this section, the term “student” means an
   individual 			who is enrolled in a doctoral program which meets the
   requirements of 			§ 6902.1 and, “graduate” means an individual who has
   completed a 			doctoral program of study from a program meeting the
   requirements of 			§ 6902.1.

   6911.12. The Board shall not recognize the supervised practice of a student,
   
   		graduate, or person seeking re-licensure whose supervisor fails to
   				comply with the time requirement as specified in § 6911.4.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3241, 3242 (April 15,
   2011).
