                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTINUING EDUCATION CREDITS (§ 17-6908)

6908.1. The Board may grant continuing education credit for whole hours only,
   with a minimum of fifty (50) minutes constituting one (1) credit hour.

   6908.2. For approved undergraduate or graduate courses taken for educational
   credit, each semester credit hour shall constitute five (5) continuing
   education credits and each quarter-hour credit shall constitute seven and
   one-half (7-1/2) continuing education credits.

   6908.3. [REPEALED]
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Board may grant a maximum of ten (10) continuing education credits per
   licensure period to an applicant who participates in one or more in-service
   education programs.

   6908.5. The Board may grant a maximum of fifty percent (50%) of an
   applicant&#8217;s continuing education requirement for completing continuing
   education activities under §6907.6.

   6908.6. The Board may grant credit to an applicant who serves as an instructor
   or speaker at an approved program for preparation and presentation time,
   subject to the restrictions under §6908.7 through §6908.9.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The amount of continuing education credit that may be granted is fifty percent
   (50%) of the amount of actual presentation time.

   6908.8. If an applicant has previously received credit in connection with a
   particular presentation, the Board shall not grant credit for a subsequent
   presentation unless it involves either a different subject or substantial
   additional research concerning the same subject.

   6908.9. The presentation shall have been completed during the period for which
   credit is claimed.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Board may grant continuing education credit under §6907.8 only if the
   applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Board that the work has been
   published or accepted for publication during the period for which credit is
   claimed.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Board may grant continuing education credits for the following
   
   activities:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For serving as a reviewer of articles submitted for publication, one (1) 
   continuing education credit may be granted for each article reviewed up to a
   maximum of three (3) articles;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For providing a published critique or response to a published article, one (1)
   continuing education credit may be granted up to a maximum of three critiques
   or responses;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For publishing an article, a maximum of three (3) continuing education credits
   may be granted;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For publishing a book,  a maximum of fifteen (15) continuing education credits
   may be granted;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For serving as a co-editor of a published book, a maximum of fifteen (15)
   continuing education credits may be divided among the co-editors with each
   co-editor receiving at least three (3) continuing education credits;
   
   
   
   (f)  	For publishing a book chapter, a maximum of  three (3) continuing
   
         	education credits may be granted;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For reviewing a book, a maximum of three (3)  continuing education credits may
   be granted;      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For serving as a senior editor for a journal or periodical, a maximum of 
   twelve (12) continuing education credits may be granted;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For serving as an associate editor for a journal or periodical, a maximum of
   nine (9) continuing education credits may be granted;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For serving as a junior (or comparable level) editor, six (6) continuing
   education credits may be granted;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For serving as a speaker or instructor for a seminar, workshop,
   
   	conference or in-service training, a maximum of six (6) continuing education
   credits per total presentation time may be granted; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   For serving as a developer of an online or home study continuing education
   course, a maximum of three (3) continuing education credits per course may be
   granted.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A licensee shall receive no more than fifteen (15) continuing education
   credits for any combination of the activities listed in § 6908.11 or for
   completing any combination of online and home study courses.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   No continuing education credit shall be awarded for any activity of a licensee
   if either of the following is true:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The activity is an expected responsibility of a paid position held by the
   licensee (such as a professor on a tenure track publishing an article); or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The licensee received compensation for the activity (including honoraria) or
   the licensee shall receive compensation in the future.
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 2921, 2929 (April 22, 1988); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 6019, 6022-6024 (July 31,
   2009).
