                                  DC REGULATIONS

OFFICE OF CONSUMER SERVICES (§ 15-323)

323.1. There is established within the Public Service Commission an Office of
   Consumer Services.

   323.2. The Office of Consumer Services shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Answer inquiries regarding residential utility service, the services
   provided by each Energy Supplier and Telecommunications Service Provider and
   the procedures for resolving disputes;
   
   
   
   (b)	Assist in the informal resolution of Customer complaints and disputes that
   have not been resolved under the Utility’s or Energy Supplier’s or
   Telecommunications Service Provider’s own procedures; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Refer to the Commission for formal adjudication any Customer’s complaint
   that cannot be resolved informally.

   323.3. Any applicant for utility, energy or Telecommunications services, or
   the Applicant’s or Customer’s designated representative, as the case may
   be, may complain to the Commission concerning a Deposit requirement, the
   service provided, or a Utility or an Energy Supplier or Telecommunications
   Service Provider’s Bill.  Should a party other than the Applicant, Customer
   of record, or the Office of the People’s Counsel file such a Complaint, the
   Applicant or Customer of record shall file a notarized letter authorizing the
   designee to act on his or her behalf, and the individual or entity shall file
   a notice that authorizes it to act on the Applicant’s or Customer’s
   behalf.

   323.4. If a Complaint addresses a matter that has failed to be resolved under
   the Utility’s, Energy Supplier’s or Telecommunications Service
   Provider’s procedures, the Office of Consumer Services shall handle the
   matter as an Informal Complaint for resolution.  If the Complaint has not been
   referred to the Utility, Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service
   Provider of the service in question, the matter shall be referred to the
   Utility, Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service Provider for an attempt
   at direct resolution. In every case of a dispute between a Customer and a
   Utility, Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service Provider, the first
   attempt at resolution shall be made directly between the parties.

   323.5. The Utility, Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service Provider
   shall respond to the Informal Complaint or similar Customer related referral
   to the Office of Consumer Services within fourteen (14) Business Days or
   within such time as shall be specified by any extension of time that may be
   granted by that office.  If the Complaint or matter is not resolved within
   that time, the Utility, Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service Provider
   shall refer the matter back to the Office of Consumer Services.

   323.6. If the Office of Consumer Services handles a matter informally, the
   office   shall notify the Utility, Energy Supplier or Telecommunications
   Service Provider by telephone, in writing or other technological means to
   investigate the matter and attempt through mediation to resolve the matter.

   323.7. If the Office of Consumer Services determines that a matter cannot be
   resolved informally, then within five (5) Business Days, the Office of
   Consumer Services shall notify the Complainant in writing and invite the
   Complainant to file a Formal Complaint with the Commission.  The Utility,
   Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service Provider shall be copied on this
   notification.  The notification shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	State that the Complainant has the right to file, at no cost, a Formal
   Complaint, if he or she so desires;
   
   
   
   (b)	State that a Formal Complaint must be filed within fourteen (14) Days of
   the date of mailing of the notification or the matter shall be dismissed;
   
   
   
   (c)	Indicate the availability of assistance and legal representation by the
   Office of the People’s Counsel and the address and telephone number of the
   Office of the People’s Counsel;
   
   
   
   (d)	Indicate that the Complainant may be represented by him or herself, by
   counsel, by the Office of the People’s Counsel, or by a third party of the
   Complainant’s choosing; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Set forth the Commission’s Formal Complaint and hearing procedures.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 10381, 10415 (June 1, 1979); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 10014 (September 26,
   2008); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12494
   (December 12, 2008).
