                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROCEDURES FOR UTILITY DISCONNECTION (§ 15-311)

311.1. A Utility shall postpone the Disconnection of service for a reasonable
   time not to exceed twenty-one (21) Days if the Utility is provided with a
   physician’s certificate or notice from a public health official which states
   that Disconnection would be detrimental to the health and safety of a bona
   fide occupant of the premises; provided that the Customer enters into a DPA.
   The postponement may be extended for one (1) additional period of not more
   than twenty-one (21) Days by renewal of the certificate or notice.

   311.2. A Utility shall not disconnect service when a dispute involving the
   Account in question has been filed with the Office of Consumer Services and
   the dispute is still pending at the Public Service Commission, provided, that
   payments are made for amounts not in dispute.

   311.3. A Utility shall not disconnect Residential Service unless a
   Disconnection notice has been sent to the Customer at the billing address by
   either first class mail or other technological means at least fifteen (15)
   Days prior to the date of proposed Disconnection. The Utility providing
   telecommunications services shall not suspend Residential Service unless a
   suspension notice has been sent to the Customer at the billing address by
   either first class mail or other technological means at least ten (10) Days
   prior to the date of proposed suspension.  Any notice required to be sent to a
   Customer prior to Disconnection or suspension of service may be sent along
   with the Bill for service; however, the notice of Disconnection or suspension
   of service must be on the first page of the Bill and shall be in bold print.
   Upon request of the Customer, a duplicate copy of the notice shall be sent by
   either first class mail or Internet or other technological means to a
   designated third party.  The third party assumes no obligation for the
   Customer’s Account.

   311.4. Nothing in this section shall preclude a Utility from taking immediate
   action necessary to correct any condition which threatens the health or safety
   of the Customer, the public or the integrity of the Utility’s distribution
   system or action taken in cooperation with civil or law enforcement
   authorities.  However, where that corrective action is taken, the Utility
   shall not thereupon discontinue service to any Customer whom it believes to be
   responsible for creation of that condition until it has complied with the
   notice provisions of this section.  The notice and reconnection required by
   this rule shall not be required in the event that service has been
   disconnected for theft of services, unauthorized use, diversion or
   interference with utility service on or about the Customer’s premises.

   311.5. The disconnection notice shall state the following information:
   
   
   
   		(a)	The Customer&#8217;s name, address and Account number;
   
   
   
   		(b)	The address where service is to be discontinued, if different;
   
   
   
   		(c)	The Charges for reconnection of service, if any;
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement of the total amount due, if applicable;
   
   
   
   (e)	The reason for the proposed Disconnection of service;
   
   
   
   (f)	The earliest date on which service will be disconnected in the absence of
   payment or adjustment;
   
   
   
   (g)	The telephone number and address of the Utility, and an invitation to
   contact the Utility to resolve the matter;
   
   
   
   		(h)	The Customer’s right to delay Disconnection of service
   
   			for medical reasons;
   
   
   
   (i)	The possibility of deferred payments; and
   
   
   
   (j)	The right to file a complaint with the Public Service Commission, and the
   availability of legal representation and assistance by the Office of the
   People’s Counsel and the address and telephone number of the Office of the
   People’s Counsel.

   311.6. Utility service shall not be disconnected and shall be restored if
   Disconnected where a Customer has established or is reinstated to a DPA for
   utility charges that are the basis of the notice of Disconnection and the
   Customer has not defaulted on such DPA.

   311.7. A Utility shall not disconnect service for the period after 5:00 p.m.
   Thursday and before 8:00 a.m. Monday, and it may not disconnect on a legal
   holiday, or on a Day that the Utility is closed to the public, except as
   provided in subsections 311.8 and 311.9.

   311.8. A Utility may disconnect service on Friday or Saturday if the following
   applies:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Meter is located on the inside of the premises or is otherwise not
   readily accessible; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The Utility has previously and unsuccessfully attempted to gain access to
   the premise as stated in subsection 310.1(e), on at least two (2) week days.

   311.9. Subsections 311.7 and 311.8 shall not apply to service disconnections
   to abandoned buildings, where the customer has requested disconnection in
   circumstances of unsafe conditions or of theft of natural gas or electricity,
   or to disconnect telephone service where there is evidence of toll abuse or
   fraud.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 10381, 10405 (June 1, 1979); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 443 (January 24, 1986); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 10014 (September 26,
   2008); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12494
   (December 12, 2008).
