                                  DC REGULATIONS

CUSTOMER INQUIRIES AND COMPLAINTS (ยง 15-320)

320.1. This section applies to Utility companies, Energy Suppliers and
   Telecommunications Service Providers.  A Utility, Energy Supplier or
   Telecommunications Service Provider shall, in accordance with this section,
   establish written procedures that will ensure the prompt, efficient, and
   thorough receipt, investigation and, where possible, resolution of all
   Customer inquiries, service requests and Complaints regarding residential
   Utility, Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service Provider services and
   Charges.

   320.2. Qualified Utility, Energy Supplier and Telecommunications Service
   Provider personnel shall be available and prepared at all times during normal
   business hours to receive and discuss Customer inquiries, service requests and
   Complaints. All Utility, Energy Supplier and Telecommunications Service
   Providers shall make necessary arrangements to ensure that Spanish
   language-speaking personnel are made available to assist the Spanish speaking
   public or maintain a toll-free or local telephone number for Customer service
   inquires from such persons.

   320.3. Supervisory personnel shall be available during normal business hours
   to discuss Customer complaints that are not resolved through contact with
   customer service representatives.

   320.4. Qualified personnel authorized to enter into a DPA on behalf of the
   Utility, Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service Provider shall be
   available during normal business hours.

   320.5. Every Utility, or Telecommunications Service Provider that provides
   distribution  services or telecommunications services to a customer shall have
   qualified personnel available at all times to respond to Customer calls
   regarding interruption of service due to the existence of emergency
   conditions.  This provision does not apply to any service provider that does
   not, as a matter of regular business practice, provide for the remediation of
   emergency conditions.

   320.6. When a Complaint cannot be resolved between the Customer and his or her
   Utility, Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service Provider, the Utility,
   Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service Provider shall inform the
   Customer of the right to contact the Commission for resolution.  The Utility,
   Energy Supplier, and Telecommunications Service Provider shall also advise the
   Customer of the availability of OPC to assist in resolving a dispute before
   the Commission.

   320.7. In every dispute between a Customer and the Utility, Energy Supplier or
   Telecommunications Service Provider, the first attempt at resolution shall be
   made directly between the parties unless the Utility, Energy Supplier or
   Telecommunications Service Provider has been notified that the Customer is
   represented by counsel.

   320.8. When the Utility, Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service
   Provider concludes that there is a mistake in an amount billed, the Utility,
   Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service Provider shall adjust the amount
   due, and shall reflect the adjustment during the next Billing Cycle or as soon
   as reasonably possible.

   320.9. A Utility, Energy Supplier, or Telecommunications Service Provider and
   a Customer may agree upon a DPA to pay any amount due the Utility or service
   provider.  No charges, other than those accrued as of the date of settlement,
   and no interest shall be charged to the Customer as part of the DPA.

   320.10. When a Utility, Energy Supplier, or Telecommunications Service
   Provider cannot resolve a dispute with a Customer, the Utility, Energy
   Supplier, or Telecommunications Service Provider shall refer the Customer to
   the Commission for resolution.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 10381, 10411 (June 1, 1979); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 10014 (September 26,
   2008); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12494
   (December 12, 2008).
