                                  DC REGULATIONS

FORMAL HEARING PROCEDURES (§ 15-325)

325.1. A formal hearing shall, if appropriate, be scheduled within forty-five
   (45) Days of the filing of the Complaint answer.  Except in special cases,
   hearings shall be held during business hours of the Commission.  The
   Commission shall designate a hearing officer who has not participated in the
   investigation of the Complaint to preside over the proceeding.

   325.2. If the Formal Complaint fails to state all the facts necessary to state
   a claim upon which relief may be granted, the Hearing Officer may order the
   Complainant to amend the Complaint or may dismiss the complaint.

   325.3. The Commission shall provide notice of the hearing by personal service,
   by first-class mail or other technological means, as authorized by the
   Commission, to the Customer and the Customer’s Designated Representative and
   to the Utility, Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service Provider.
   Service shall be made by first-class mail postage prepaid at least fourteen
   (14) days prior to the hearing date unless the parties agree on a shorter
   time. The notice shall also state that in the event that the Complainant fails
   to attend a scheduled hearing without evidence of good cause, the hearing
   officer may dismiss the Complaint with prejudice.  The hearing officer may
   reschedule any hearing to a date or time agreed upon by the parties or, upon
   notice and for good cause shown, at the request of any party.

   325.4. A party requesting a second continuance will be required to provide
   good cause for the continuance.  If the party is the Complainant and he or she
   does not provide good cause, as determined by the hearing officer, the
   Complaint may be dismissed, with prejudice.  If the party is a Utility, Energy
   Supplier or Telecommunications Service Provider and it fails to provide good
   cause, the matter may be heard, without continuance.  The hearing officer may,
   at his or her discretion, postpone or adjourn a hearing for reasonable cause.
   If a hearing is continued, adequate notice shall be provided to the parties.

   325.5. In the event the Complainant fails to attend any scheduled hearing
   without good cause, the hearing officer may dismiss the Complaint with
   prejudice.

   325.6. In the event a Utility, Energy Supplier or Telecommunications Service
   Provider fails to attend a scheduled hearing without good cause, the hearing
   officer may hear evidence and render a decision.

   325.7. Upon a reasonable request from each other, the parties shall, within
   the timeframe prescribed in the Commission’s rules in Chapter 1, provide all
   information they have relevant to the matters at issue in the Complaint
   including relevant documents, Account data, files and the names of witnesses.
   Nothing herein shall preclude a party from filing a request or motion to
   compel responses to information requests.

   325.8. Parties may examine any relevant records of the Commission.  However,
   information deemed to be confidential may be reviewed in a manner that is
   consistent with the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure.

   325.9. On any issue or procedure where Chapter 3 is silent, the hearing
   officer may at his or her discretion utilize Chapter 1 regulations as
   appropriate.

   325.10. Parties may represent themselves or be represented by counsel,
   conservator, legal guardian or someone with power of attorney.  If a
   complainant proceeds pro se, the hearing officer may construe the pleadings
   liberally. If it appears to the hearing officer that a party appearing without
   an attorney should be represented by an attorney, the hearing officer shall
   suggest that the party secure counsel or contact the Office of the People’s
   Counsel concerning representation and allow a reasonable time to secure such
   representation.

   325.11. Parties shall have the right to present evidence, call witnesses, and
   present written and oral argument.

   325.12. Witnesses shall testify under oath, and the parties shall have the
   right to examine and cross-examine all witnesses.

   325.13. The hearing officer may, in his or her discretion, limit any line of
   questioning, testimony and the time for argument.

   325.14. Unless otherwise ordered by the hearing officer, the Complainant’s
   witnesses shall testify first, followed by the Utility’s, Energy
   Supplier’s or Telecommunications Service Provider’s witnesses. A
   reasonable opportunity will be afforded all parties to present rebuttal
   evidence.

   325.15. The hearing officer may elicit testimony from any witness regarding
   the issue(s) in dispute.

   325.16. The hearing officer has the obligation, especially when a Complainant
   is not represented by counsel, to ensure that all material facts are developed
   to the fullest extent consistent with his or her responsibility to preside
   impartially throughout the proceeding.

   325.17. The formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but the hearing officer
   shall exclude irrelevant or unduly repetitious evidence.

   325.18. Parties may stipulate to any facts, and such stipulation shall be put
   into evidence.

   325.19. All proceedings shall be recorded or transcribed by a certified court
   reporter. The transcriptions shall be made available promptly to any party
   upon request, at the party’s expense.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 10381, 10417 (June 1, 1979); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 10014 (September 26,
   2008); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12494
   (December 12, 2008).
