                                  DC REGULATIONS

METERS READ BY CUSTOMERS (§ 15-303)

303.1. Whenever a Meter reader is on the premises and cannot make an actual
   reading, the Utility shall provide Customers with an electronic or telephonic
   means to report a Customer Meter reading.  The Utility shall furnish a
   Customer a Meter reading card upon request.

   303.2. Any Natural Gas or Electric Utility Customer may routinely read his/her
   own Meter and report the reading to the Utility by the means stated in
   subsection 303.6, so long as the usage is reported accurately and on the
   schedule specified by the Utility. A Customer’s Bill based on a reading by
   the Customer is subject to increase or decrease based upon later actual
   reading by the Utility.

   303.3. If a Utility determines that actual Meter readings have not been made
   of the Customer’s Meter after two (2) consecutive Billing Cycles, the
   Utility shall provide the Customer with the means to read and report the meter
   reading to the Utility, as provided in subsection 303.6.  The Customer’s
   Meter reading shall be used for billing purposes, except in the following
   circumstances:
   
   
   
   	(a)	There has been an actual reading of the Meter by the Utility;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The Meter reading has not been timely forwarded to the Utility; or
   
   
   
   (c) 	The Customer’s reported reading varies significantly from the
   Utility’s estimate of usage; if this occurs, the Utility is required to make
   an actual reading within seven (7) Business Days unless the Customer does not
   allow access.

   303.4. At a Utility’s request, the Customer shall provide access to the
   Meter in order for the Utility to verify the accuracy of readings reported
   under this subsection.  This subsection shall not prevent a Utility from
   reading Meters on a regular basis.

   303.5. If a Utility’s estimate is used in lieu of the reading submitted by
   the Customer, the Utility shall make an actual Meter reading when the Meter is
   accessible.

   303.6. The Utility shall provide the Customer with instructions on proper
   Meter reading, the date the Meter must be read and the date the Customer must
   report a Meter reading to the Utility.  A Customer can report a Meter reading
   by any of the following methods:
   
   
   
   	(a)	Telephone or telecommunications device;
   
   
   
   	(b)	Internet;
   
   
   
   	(c)	Postage prepaid Meter reading card supplied by the Utility; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Such other technological means generally available to the Customer and
   approved by the Commission.

   303.7. Upon a Customer initiating service, and annually thereafter, the
   Utility shall provide information regarding Customer meter readings, including
   instructions on how to read the Meter and how to obtain the date on which the
   Meter should be read and the date by which the Customer Meter reading must be
   returned to the Utility.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 10381, 10391 (June 1, 1979); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 10014 (September 26,
   2008); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12494
   (December 12, 2008).
