                                  DC REGULATIONS

DECISIONS AND APPEALS (§ 15-326)

326.1. Within thirty (30) Days after the close of the record, the hearing
   officer shall issue a written decision which states the issues and makes
   findings of fact, conclusions of law, and his or her disposition of the
   matter.

   326.2. When reviewing the matter for disposition, the hearing officer has
   available the following remedies:
   
   
   
   (a)	Upon a factual finding of a complainant’s meritorious claim, the hearing
   officer may award, as the facts in each individual case may warrant, a refund
   to Complainant for overpayment to a Utility, Energy Supplier, or
   Telecommunications Service Provider; a credit to Complainant’s account with
   a Utility, Energy Supplier, or Telecommunications Service Provider; a
   reduction in the amount owed on a Bill to a Utility, Energy Supplier, or
   Telecommunications Service Provider; or any other equitable or injunctive
   relief as permitted by these rules;
   
   
   
   (b)	In no instance may a hearing officer award a Complainant compensatory or
   punitive damages; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Complaints requesting monetary damages as the sole basis for relief may be
   dismissed with prejudice by the hearing officer for failure to state a claim
   upon which relief may granted.

   326.3. In cases involving billing disputes in which the hearing officer has
   concluded that all or part of the amount in dispute is owed, the hearing
   officer may, for good cause stated in the decision, direct that the amount
   found outstanding be paid in installments.

   326.4. Copies of the hearing officer’s decision shall be served upon the
   parties either personally, by regular mail or other technological means on the
   Day the decision is issued, together with instructions on how to appeal the
   decision to the Commission and indicating the last date the appeal may be
   filed.

   326.5. The decision of the hearing officer shall be final if there is no
   appeal to the Commission within the time specified in this section.

   326.6. Any party may appeal the hearing officer’s decision to the Commission
   by filing a Petition for Review with the Commission Secretary’s Office
   within ten (10) Days of personal service or service by other technological
   means or twelve (12) Days of service by mail of the decision.

   326.7. The appeal shall be signed by the party or his or her designated
   representative, identifying the decision appealed and specifying the grounds
   on which the appeal is based.

   326.8. The appealing party shall serve the opposing party with a copy of the
   petition for review within one (1) Day of the date of its filing with the
   Commission.  Service may be made personally, by first class mail or other
   technological means.

   326.9. The opposing party’s response or cross-appeal shall be filed within
   seven (7) Days of personal service or other technological means and ten (10)
   Days of service by first class mail.

   326.10. Within ten (10) Days of the filing of a Petition for Review, the
   record shall be prepared, certified as complete and forwarded by the
   Commission Secretary to the Commission.

   326.11. The Commission shall review the decision and rule on the Petition for
   Review within thirty (30) Days after the record is prepared, certified as
   complete and forwarded by the Commission Secretary.

   326.12. Upon review of the record, and after giving consideration to the
   matters raised on appeal in the Petition for Review, the Commission shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Adopt the decision of the hearing officer;
   
   
   
   (b)	Issue a Commission decision;
   
   
   
   (c)	Remand the matter to the hearing officer for further proceedings; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Take such other action as the Commission may deem appropriate.

   326.13. If the Commission is unable to render a decision pursuant to 326.12
   within thirty (30) Days, then the hearing officer’s decision becomes the
   final decision of the Commission.  The decision will become final unless a
   tolling order is issued by the Commission extending the time for the
   Commission’s decision.

   326.14. Any party may request reconsideration of a final Commission decision
   within thirty (30) Days of the issuance of the decision.  The filing of such
   request shall act as a stay upon the execution of the order or decision of the
   Commission until the Commission takes final action; provided, that upon
   written consent of the Utility, Energy Supplier, or Telecommunications Service
   Provider such order or decision shall not be stayed unless otherwise ordered
   by the Commission.  The Commission, within thirty (30) Days after the filing
   of the request for reconsideration, shall issue an order either granting or
   denying the request.  In granting the request, the Commission shall, either
   with or without hearing, rescind, modify, or affirm its order or decision.  If
   the Commission is unable to render a decision within thirty (30) Days, and
   does not issue a tolling order, then the decision of the hearing officer
   becomes final and is appealable pursuant to § 326.15.

   326.15. Review of a final Commission decision shall be to the District of
   Columbia Court of Appeals pursuant to D.C. Code §§ 34-604 and 34-605 (2001).
    An appeal of any order of the Commission cannot be made unless a request for
   reconsideration shall have been first made pursuant to section 326.14.  Any
   Person affected by a final order or decision of the Commission may, within
   sixty (60) Days after final action of the Commission upon request for
   reconsideration, file with the Clerk of the District of Columbia Court of
   Appeals a petition of appeal setting forth the reasons for such appeal and the
   relief sought; at the same time such appellant shall file with the Commission
   notice in writing of the appeal together with a copy of the petition filed in
   the Court of Appeals.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 10381, 10411 (June 1, 1979); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 7497 (December 20, 1985); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 10014 (September 26,
   2008); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12494
   (December 12, 2008).
