                                  DC REGULATIONS

PUBLICATION OF CONSUMER PAMPHLET (§ 15-321)

321.1. The Utilities, Energy Suppliers, and Telecommunications Service
   Providers shall each, individually prepare a pamphlet in English and Spanish
   in layman’s terms summarizing the rights and responsibilities of Customers
   in accordance with these and other applicable rules.   The text of each
   pamphlet is subject to prior Commission approval and pre-publication comment
   of the People’s Counsel.

   321.2. The pamphlet shall be available at every Utility, Energy Supplier and
   Telecommunications Service Provider location open to the general public.

   321.3. The pamphlet will be provided upon request at no charge to Customers. 
   Each new Customer shall be offered a pamphlet free of charge.

   321.4. The pamphlet shall cover, if applicable, the following items:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Billing procedures and estimation standards;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Methods for a Customer to verify billing accuracy;
   
   
   
   (c)	Customer’s right to have Meter tested free of charge by the utility once
   every twelve (12) months as well as a referee Meter test pursuant to 15 DCMR
   §2368 et seq.;
   
   
   
   		(d)	Customer payment standards and procedures;
   
   
   
   (e)	Security Deposit;
   
   
   
   		(f)	Disconnection and reconnection of service;
   
   
   
   		(g)	Inquiry, service and complaint procedures;
   
   
   
   (h)	Public Service Commission Consumer Complaint resolution procedures and the
   availability of assistance and legal representation by the Office of the
   People’s Counsel;
   
   
   
   (i)	The availability of DPA for payment of Bills or Deposits; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Customer access to information required to be made available to them.

   321.5. The cover of the pamphlet shall indicate conspicuously that the
   pamphlet is provided in accordance with the rules of the Commission and shall
   indicate in English and Spanish that a Spanish version is available upon
   request.

   321.6. Each Utility, Energy Supplier, or Telecommunications Service Provider
   shall have accessible during business hours a Spanish-speaking interpreter or
   maintain a toll free or local telephone number for Spanish-speaking persons
   who seek information about the rights and responsibilities of Customers,
   services, and programs of the service provider.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 10381, 10412 (June 1, 1979); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 10014 (September 26,
   2008); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12494
   (December 12, 2008).
