                                  DC REGULATIONS

CLASSIFICATION POLICY (ยง 7-1801)

1801.1. Market pricing and job ranking are the methods implemented by the
   Retirement Board for establishing job classification, which involves gathering
   market data for comparable jobs in relevant markets and assigning jobs to a
   classification structure based on their market value.

   1801.2. Jobs for which there is no market data available will be assigned to
   the classification structure based on an overall evaluation of the worth of
   the job, compared to other jobs assigned to the classification structure based
   on market data.

   1801.3. Specially trained and experienced professionals who: (i) are skilled
   at analyzing market data, (ii) understand relevant job requirements, (iii) are
   capable of defending decisions made about job classification with appropriate
   documentary evidence, and (iv) have no direct or indirect financial interest
   that conflicts with the fair, impartial, and objective performance of duties
   involving job classification shall be retained to assist the Retirement Board
   in the job classification and reclassification process.

   1801.4. To be responsive to changing job requirements and the needs of a
   highly specialized staff, the Retirement Board shall eliminate obsolete job
   titles and update position descriptions as needed.

   1801.5. The position description format shall be designed to eliminate any
   former bias against qualified individuals with or without physical challenges
   by disclosing essential functions and working conditions.

   1801.6. The position description format shall include the following
   components:
   
   
   
   (a)	General summary of nature and purpose of job;
   
   
   
   (b)	Primary duties and responsibilities (not intended to be exhaustive);
   
   
   
   (c)	Competencies (i.e., knowledge, skills and abilities);
   
   
   
   (d)	Reporting relationships and internal/external contacts; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Working (physical) environment.

   1801.7. The Retirement Board may use an automated system developed for the
   District government to assist individual staff in supervisory positions when
   generating and updating position descriptions.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9895, 9896 (December
   15, 2000).
