                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPENSATION POLICY (ยง 7-1802)

1802.1. The Retirement Board shall maintain a compensation policy designed to
   attract, motivate, and retain talented employees with highly specialized
   skills in order to successfully execute its statutory obligations, while
   concomitantly assuring to the fullest extent possible, fair treatment of
   applicants and employees, and compliance with Federal fair employment laws
   which prohibit employment practices that discriminate on the basis of age,
   race, color, gender, national origin, religion, and disability.

   1802.2. The Retirement Board shall implement a multi-grade salary structure
   with a minimum, midpoint, and maximum (&#8220;min-mid-max&#8221;) salary
   range, and variable progression through each respective grade based on
   performance.

   1802.3. The minimum of the salary range shall be the rate paid to an employee
   who is assigned to a position for which he/she possesses entry-level
   qualifications and who is expected to be able to perform basic duties and
   responsibilities after normal training.

   1802.4. The midpoint shall be the middle point of the salary range which shall
   be appropriate for an experienced and fully qualified employee whose
   performance fulfills all requirements of the position.

   1802.5. The maximum of the salary range shall be the highest salary level for
   an employee: (i) whose performance consistently exceeds most position
   requirements, (ii) with critical skills, or (iii) with long satisfactory
   service.

   1802.6. The min-mid-max salary structure will reflect salary range spreads
   (the distance between the minimum and the maximum of the salary range) which
   may vary with grade level.

   1802.7. A midpoint-to-midpoint differential (the percentage distance between
   the midpoint of one grade and the midpoint of the adjacent grade) of 10 to 15
   percent shall be maintained to the extent practicable, to allow an appropriate
   progression from one grade to another.

   1802.8. The following objectives shall be used as the basis to guide
   compensation decisions:
   
   
   
   (a)	To attract, motivate, and retain employees who possess the knowledge,
   skill, and ability which contributes to achievement of the Retirement
   Board&#8217;s mission and compliance with its fiduciary obligations;
   
   
   
   (b)	To ensure a program which treats all employees in a fair and equitable
   manner in relation to both the external market as well as the internal
   hierarchy; and
   
   
   
   (c)	To reward employees for contributions and performance which contributes to
   achievement of the Retirement Board&#8217;s overall mission and objectives.

   1802.9. For purposes of compliance with separate competitive salary
   requirements under the Legal Service Act:
   
   
   
   (a)	Compensation for Senior Executive Attorneys shall be competitive with that
   provided by the Federal government Senior Executive Service Salary Table for
   attorneys in the Washington metropolitan area having comparable duties,
   responsibilities, qualifications and experience; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Compensation for other Legal Service Attorneys shall be competitive with
   that provided by the Federal government General Schedule for attorneys in the
   Washington metropolitan area having comparable duties, responsibilities,
   qualifications, and experience.

   1802.10. Total compensation shall be established and maintained (consistent
   with laws of the District of Columbia) at levels sufficient to enable the
   Retirement Board to compete effectively for talented employees in all
   identified relevant markets.

   1802.11. Salary structures may be adjusted on an annual basis to ensure
   ongoing competitiveness of salary ranges.

   1802.12. In addition to salary adjustments based on competitiveness,
   individual base salaries may be adjusted based on merit increases.

   1802.13. Rates of pay within and, to the maximum extent practical, across
   various occupations and categories shall be equal for substantially equal
   work. Differences in pay among individual employees will reflect differences
   in the nature and character of work performed and the skill, competency,
   experience, performance and results associated with each individual employee.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9896, 9898 (December
   15, 2000).
