                                  DC REGULATIONS

SALARY ADMINISTRATION (ยง 7-1803)

1803.1. The Retirement Board shall determine, by majority vote, the job
   responsibilities (position description) and the level of compensation for the
   Executive Director.

   1803.2. The Retirement Board shall delegate such authority deemed appropriate
   to the Executive Director to make compensation decisions for all other staff.
   Compensation decisions for staff shall be made consistent with applicable laws
   of the District of Columbia (including the Legal Service Act) and,
   classification and compensation program regulations and policy approved by the
   Retirement Board.

   1803.3. The Executive Director shall develop and administer a job evaluation
   program which shall include regular review and reevaluation of position
   descriptions. Position descriptions shall be made available to Retirement
   Board members, staff, and to others upon request.

   1803.4. The Executive Director shall undertake at a minimum, a bi-annual
   review of compensation surveys of employees in relevant markets and/or
   organizations having similar jobs in order to recommend adjustments in the
   salary structure to ensure ongoing competitiveness of salary ranges.

   1803.5. The bi-annual review of compensation surveys shall be conducted by
   specially trained and experienced professionals who have: (i) experience in
   market data analysis, (ii) a good working knowledge of the jobs involved,
   (iii) an obligation to justify all compensation decisions with documentary
   evidence and (iv) no direct or indirect financial interest that conflicts with
   the fair, impartial, and objective performance of duties required.

   1803.6. If analysis from the bi-annual review of compensation surveys provides
   evidence of a change in the salaries paid in relevant markets for similar
   work, salary ranges for Retirement Board employees shall be adjusted
   accordingly. Such changes shall be implemented consistent with the
   compensation objectives set forth at section 1802.8.

   1803.7. The Executive Director shall recommend for Retirement Board approval
   any adjustment to the salary structure.

   1803.8. The Executive Director shall manage a continuing review of staff
   compensation to ensure that each staff position is evaluated and assigned to a
   competitive and equitable salary range that equitably reflects each
   position&#8217;s responsibilities and performance requirements.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9898, 9899 (December
   15, 2000).
