                                  DC REGULATIONS

TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS[COLON] VEHICLES (§ 18-2103)

2103.1. Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting
   the words “GO,” “CAUTION,” or “STOP,” or exhibiting different
   colored lights, arrows, or combinations of lights and arrows successively one
   at a time, only those colors set forth in this section shall be used, and the
   terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles as set forth
   in this section.

   2103.2. In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
   maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
   section shall be applicable, except those provisions which, by their nature,
   could have no application.

   2103.3. The color GREEN alone or the word “GO” on a traffic control signal
   shall have the following meaning:
   
   
   
   (a)	Vehicular traffic facing the GREEN or “GO” signal, except when
   prohibited under § 2211.4, may proceed straight through or turn right or left
   unless a sign at such place prohibits a turn in either direction or both
   directions; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield
   the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
   intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the GREEN or “GO” signal
   is exhibited.

   2103.4. A GREEN ARROW shall have the following meaning:
   
   
   
   (a)	Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the intersection
   only to make the movement indicated by the arrow; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a
   crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.

   2103.5. A STEADY YELLOWSIGNAL alone shall have the following meaning:
   
   
   
   (a)	Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned that a
   related green signal is being terminated or that a red signal will be
   exhibited thereafter, or both; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Vehicular traffic shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk of the
   intersection, unless so close to the intersection that a stop cannot safely be
   made.

   2103.6. A STEADY YELLOWARROW shall have the following meaning:
   
   
   
   (a)	Vehicular traffic facing the signal is warned that vehicular movement in
   the direction that the arrow is pointing is about to be terminated by means of
   a steady full red, a steady red arrow, or simply by the green arrow being
   turned off; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Vehicular traffic shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at the
   intersection, unless so close to the intersection that a stop cannot be made
   in safety.

   2103.7. A STEADY RED SIGNAL alone or the word “STOP” shall have the
   following meaning:
   
   
   
   (a)	Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
   crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
   entering the intersection;
   
   
   
   (b)	Stopped vehicles shall remain standing until green, green arrow, or
   flashing yellow is shown, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this
   subsection; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A vehicle facing a steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection
   to turn right after stopping. The vehicle shall yield right-of-way to
   pedestrians within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using
   the intersection.

   2103.8. A STEADY RED ARROW shall have the following meaning:
   
   
   
   (a)	Vehicular traffic facing the signal destined to proceed in the direction
   that the arrow is pointing shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
   near side of the intersection or, if none, the vehicle shall stop before
   entering the intersection; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The vehicle shall remain standing until a green arrow or flashing yellow
   arrow is shown.

   2103.9. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement
   indicating where the stop shall be made; Provided, that in the absence of any
   sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
