                                  DC REGULATIONS

RULES OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT (§ 17-3411)

3411.1 	In engaging in the practice of architecture, a licensed architect
   shall act with reasonable care and competence, and shall apply the technical
   knowledge and skill that are ordinarily applied by licensed architects of good
   standing practicing in the same locality.
   
   
   
   3411.2 	In designing a project, a licensed architect shall take into account
   all applicable federal, state, and municipal building laws and regulations.
   While a licensed architect may rely on the advice of other professionals
   (e.g., attorneys, engineers, and other qualified persons) as to the intent and
   meaning of such regulations, once having obtained such advice, a licensed
   architect shall not knowingly design a project in violation of such laws and
   regulations.
   
   
   
   3411.3 	A licensed architect shall undertake to perform professional services
   only when he or she, together with those whom the licensed architect may
   engage as consultants, is qualified by education, training, and experience in
   the specific technical areas involved.
   
   
   
   3411.4 	A licensed architect shall not accept compensation for his or her
   services from more than one party on a project unless the circumstances are
   fully disclosed in writing and agreed to by all interested parties.
   
   
   
   3411.5 	The licensed architect shall fully disclose in writing to his or her
   client or employer any business association or direct or indirect financial
   interest which is substantial enough to influence his or her judgment in
   connection with the performance of professional services.
   
   
   
   3411.6 	When making public statements on architectural questions, a licensed
   architect shall disclose when he or she is being compensated for making such
   statements.
   
   
   
   3411.7 	If, in the course of his or her work on a project, a licensed
   architect becomes aware of a decision made by his or her employer or client,
   against such licensed architect’s advice, which will result in a violation
   of any applicable federal, state, or municipal building laws or regulations
   and which will, in the licensed architect’s judgment, materially and
   adversely affect the safety to the public of the finished project, the
   licensed architect shall:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Report the decision to the local building inspector or other public
   official charged with enforcement of the applicable federal, state, or
   municipal building laws and regulations; and
   
   
   
   (b) 	Refuse to consent to the decision.
   
   
   
   3411.8 	A licensed architect shall not willfully make a materially false
   statement or fail willfully to disclose a material fact requested in
   connection with his or her application for a license or renewal or
   reinstatement of a license.
   
   
   
   3411.9 	A licensed architect shall not assist the application for licensure of
   an individual known by the licensed architect to be unqualified with respect
   to education, training, experience, or character.
   
   
   
   3411.10 	A licensed architect possessing knowledge of a violation of the
   provisions set forth in § 3411.1 through § 3411.16 by another licensed
   architect shall report such knowledge to the Board.
   
   
   
   3411.11 	A licensed architect shall not, in the conduct of this or her
   practice, knowingly violate any municipal, state, or federal criminal law.
   
   
   
   3411.12 	A licensed architect shall neither offer nor make any payment or gift
   to a government official (whether elected or appointed) with the intent to
   influence the official’s judgment in connection with a prospective or
   existing project in which the licensed architect is interested.
   
   
   
   3411.13 	A licensed architect shall comply with the licensing laws and
   regulations governing his or her professional practice in any United States
   jurisdiction.

   3411.14. Each office located in the District of Columbia maintained for the
   preparation of drawings, specifications, reports, or other professional work
   shall have a licensed architect who is regularly employed at the office and
   who directly supervises such work.
   
   
   
   3411.15 	A licensed architect shall not sign or seal technical submissions
   unless they were prepared by the architect or under his or her direct
   supervision; provided, however, that in the case of portions of such technical
   submission prepared under the direct supervision of another licensed architect
   employed by the first licensed architect (or by his or her firm), he or she
   may sign and seal those portions of the technical submissions if he or she has
   reviewed such portions and has coordinated their preparation.
   
   
   
   3411.16 	A licensed architect shall neither offer nor give any gifts, other
   than gifts of nominal value (including, for example, reasonable entertainment
   and hospitality) with the intent of influencing the judgment of an existing or
   prospective client in connection with a project in which the licensed
   architect is interested.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 7266, 7272 (Dec. 29,1995); Final
   Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 5454, 5461 (May 9, 2008); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 9963, 9966 (August 17, 2012).
