                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 17-3499)

3499.1 	As used in this chapter, the following words or phrases terms shall
   have the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Act – The Second Omnibus Regulatory Reform Act of 1998 (D.C. Law 12-261;
   D.C. Official Code § 47-2853.01 et seq.) (2001).
   
   
   
   AIA – The American Institute of Architects.
   
   
   
   Applicant – A person who has submitted an application for licensure to the
   Board.
   
   
   
   A.R.E. – The current Architect Registration Examination prepared by NCARB.
   
   
   
   Board – The Board of Architecture and Interior Designers, as established by
   the Act.
   
   
   
   Direct supervision – Personal oversight by an individual who has control
   over, and detailed professional knowledge of, the work prepared.
   
   
   
   Electronic signature – A digital authentication process which is attached
   to, or logically associated with, an electronic document.
   
   
   
   Examination – The current Architect Registration Examination (A.R.E.), as
   accepted by the Board.
   
   
   
   Health, safety, and welfare subjects – Technical and professional subjects,
   which the Board deems appropriate to safeguard the public’s health, safety,
   and welfare. Such subjects include, but are not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Building design; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Sustainable design; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Environmental or land use analysis; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Life safety; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Architectural programming; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Site and soils analysis; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Accessibility;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Structural systems considerations; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Lateral forces; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Building codes; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Evaluation and selection of building systems, products, or materials; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Construction methods; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Contract documentation; and 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Construction administration.
   
   
   
   IDP – The current version of the Intern Development Program as established
   and administered by NCARB.
   
   
   
   Licensed architect – a person licensed to practice architecture under this
   chapter.
   
   
   
   Manual signature – The handwritten name of a person applied to a document
   that identifies the person, serves as a means of authentication of the
   contents of the document, and provides responsibility for the creation of the
   document and accountability for the contents of the document.
   
   
   
   NAAB – The National Architectural Accrediting Board.
   
   
   
   NCARB – The National Council of Architectural Registration Boards.
   
   
   
   PDU – Professional Development Unit.
   
   
   
   Registered architect &#8211; An architect registered in a United States or
   Canadian jurisdiction.
   
   
   
   Signature – Includes manual signature or electronic signature.
   
   
   
   Technical submissions – Studies, designs, drawings, specifications, and any
   other technical documentation prepared in the course of the practice of
   architecture.
   
   
   
   TU – Training unit used to calculate the hours of training earned by IDP
   applicants.

   3499.2. The definitions in § 3399 of Chapter 33 of this Title are
   incorporated by references and are applicable to this chapter.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 7266, 7275 (Dec. 29,1995); Final
   Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 5454, 5465 (May 9, 2008); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 9963, 9968 (August 17, 2012).
