                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTINUING EDUCATION (§ 17-3414)

3414.1 	This section shall apply to all applicants for the renewal or
   reinstatement of a license to practice architecture, except those applicants
   seeking first renewal of a license granted by examination.

   3414.2. An applicant for renewal of a license shall submit proof pursuant to
   this section of having completed twenty-four (24) Professional Development
   Unit (PDU) hours of credit in approved continuing education programs in
   health, safety, and welfare subjects during the term of the license.

   3414.3. An applicant under this section shall prove completion of required
   continuing education credits by submitting with the renewal application the
   following information with respect to each program:
   
   (a) 	An AIA continuing education system transcript; or
   
   (b) 	A certificate of successful completion from the sponsor or provider.
   
   3414.4  	A continuing education credit shall be valid only if it is part of a
   program approved by the Board in accordance with § 3415 of this chapter. 
   Licensees are responsible for ensuring that continuing education courses taken
   to satisfy the Board’s renewal or reinstatement requirements are Board
   certified or approved.

   3414.5. Architects on inactive status, such as emeritus architects, and
   civilians called to active duty, may be exempted from this requirement at the
   sole discretion of the Board.
   
   
   
   3414.6 	The Board may, in its discretion, grant an extension of the sixty (60)
   day period, up to a maximum of one (1) year, for renewal after expiration, if
   the applicant’s failure to submit proof of completion of continuing
   education requirements was for good cause.
   
   
   
   3414.7 	For purposes of this section, “good cause” includes, but is not
   limited to, the following:
   
   (a) 	Serious and protracted illness of the applicant; or
   
   (b) 	The death or serious and protracted illness of a member of the
   applicant’s immediate family.
   
   
   
   3414.8 	An extension granted under this section shall not relieve an architect
   from complying with the continuing education requirement for the next renewal
   period.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 9963, 9967 (August 17, 2012).
