                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIFIC PROVIDER REQUIREMENTS[COLON] EAA[SLASH]HAIP (ยง 29-4233)

4233.1. The case manager shall ensure that a home assessment is conducted by a
   licensed physician or a licensed physical therapist prior to ordering EAA
   service(s) on the ISP.

   4233.2. No EAA services shall be approved or reimbursed for a recipient who
   qualifies for the Handicap Accessibility Improvement Program (HAIP)
   administered by the District of Columbia Department of Housing and Community
   Development.

   4233.3. The case management service provider shall assist all eligible
   recipients in gaining access to the Handicap Accessibility Improvement Program
   (HAIP) prior to including EAA/HAIP service in the ISP and shall provide
   documentation thereof to the MAA.

   4233.4. All necessary service(s) that exceed the maximum allowable costs
   provided by the District of Columbia Department of Housing and Community
   Development shall be subject to prior authorization by the MAA.

   4235.5. For rental property or leased property, no EAA services shall be
   approved or reimbursed unless the rental or lease agreement and all other
   relevant documents are thoroughly examined by the case manager to determine
   whether the services are prohibited or allowed with conditions.

   4233.6. In the case of rental property or leased property, no EAA services
   shall be approved or reimbursed unless:
   
   
   
   (a)	The rental or lease agreement is thoroughly examined to determine that the
   services are not the responsibility of the property owner or manager; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A signed release was obtained from the management of the property.

   4233.7. In the case of other residential facilities, no EAA services shall be
   approved or reimbursed unless:
   
   
   
   (a)	The laws, rules, regulations, and agreements are thoroughly examined to
   determine whether the responsibility for the services(s) is not the
   responsibility of the owner and/or manager of the residential facility; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A signed release from the owner and/or management of the property is
   obtained.

   4233.8. EAA service providers shall be exempt from the annual tuberculosis
   (TB) testing requirements.

   4233.9. Prior to initiating EAA services, the case manager shall obtain an
   evaluation from a Construction Analyst or Housing Inspector. The evaluation
   must substantiate that the home is in a condition that is structurally sound
   to accommodate each ordered service(s) and include any stipulation(s) or
   recommendation(s) on how the service(s) should be implemented.

   4233.10. After receiving the evaluation by the Construction Analyst or Housing
   Inspector, the case manager must secure three bids (from among licensed
   contractors with valid provider agreements with the District of Columbia MAA)
   for necessary services that have been approved by MAA. Each bid submitted, in
   order to be considered acceptable, shall comply with each stipulation,
   limitation, or recommendation made by the Construction Analyst or Housing
   Inspector.

   4233.11. Each building contractor licensed to conduct business in the District
   of Columbia shall ensure that all construction staff has the training and
   skill level required to make the allowable in-home modifications.

   4233.12. The case management service and EAA providers shall maintain a copy
   of the waiver recipient&#8217;s ISP for a period not less than six (6) years.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 9025 (October 24, 2003).
