                                  DC REGULATIONS

AUDITS AND REVIEWS (ยง 29-4236)

4236.1. The MAA shall perform ongoing audits to ensure that the
   provider&#8217;s services for which Medicaid payments are made are consistent
   with efficiency, economy, quality of care, and made in accordance with federal
   and District rules governing Medicaid.

   4236.2. The audit process shall be routinely conducted by MAA to determine, by
   statistically valid scientific sampling, the appropriateness of services
   rendered and billed to Medicaid and that services were only rendered to
   Medicaid-eligible individuals.

   4236.3. Each provider of waiver services shall allow access, during an on-site
   audit or review (announced or unannounced) by MAA, other District of Columbia
   government officials, and representatives of the United States Department of
   Health and Human Services, to relevant records and program documentation.

   4236.4. The failure of a provider to timely release or to grant access to
   program documents and records to the MAA auditors, after reasonable notice by
   MAA to the provider to produce the same, shall constitute grounds to terminate
   the provider agreement.

   4236.5. If MAA denies a claim, MAA shall recoup, by the most expeditious means
   available, those monies erroneously paid to the provider for denied claims,
   following the period of Administrative Review set forth in ยง 4237.5 of this
   chapter.

   4236.6. The recoupment amounts for denied claims shall be determined by the
   following formula: A fraction will be calculated with the numerator consisting
   of the number of denied paid claims resulting from the audited sample. The
   denominator shall be the total number of paid claims from the audit sample.
   This fraction will be multiplied by the total dollars paid by MAA to the
   provider during the audit period to determine the amount recouped. For
   example, if a provider received Medicaid reimbursement of ten thousand dollars
   ($10,000) during the audit period, and during a review of the claims from the
   audited sample, it was determined that ten (10) claims out of one hundred
   (100) claims are denied, then ten percent (10%) of the amount reimbursed by
   Medicaid during the audit period, or one thousand dollars ($1000), would be
   recouped.

   4236.7. The MAA shall issue a Notice of Recoupment (NR), which sets forth the
   reasons for the recoupment, including the specific reference to the particular
   sections of the statute, rules, or Provider agreement, the amount to be
   recouped, and the procedures for requesting an administrative review.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 9025 (October 24, 2003).
