                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROVIDER REQUIREMENTS[COLON] GENERAL (ยง 29-4215)

4215.1. Each provider approved to provide one or more waiver services shall
   meet the following minimum requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Have a current provider agreement on file with the MAA before providing
   any waiver services; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Be licensed to do business in the District of Columbia.

   4215.2. Each provider of waiver services shall demonstrate a comprehensive
   knowledge and understanding of the MAA Program including:
   
   
   
   (a)	Knowledge of State Plan services and limitations thereof;
   
   
   
   (b)	Knowledge of linkages to community resources (legal, housing, rental,
   energy, food, transportation, and other medical and social assistance) and the
   methods of accessing these resources; and
   
   
   
   (c)	An understanding of the relationship between State Plan and waiver
   services, where applicable.

   4215.3. Each provider of two (2) or more waiver services to the same recipient
   shall coordinate supervisory visits in order to avoid duplication of services
   and unnecessary cost to the District.

   4215.4. Each provider of waiver services shall notify the District of any and
   all recipients who are hospitalized or who have had their waiver services
   placed &#8220;On-Hold&#8221; for any reason.

   4215.5. Each provider of waiver services shall demonstrate a service history
   and current capacity to provide services to recipients who reside in all four
   (4) quadrants of the District of Columbia, and to assist recipients in
   accessing those services.

   4215.6. Each provider of waiver services shall demonstrate a service history
   and current capacity to assist recipients in accessing services provided
   through the District of Columbia Office on Aging or other agencies serving the
   elderly and individuals with physical disabilities.

   4215.7. Each provider of waiver services shall require and thoroughly check at
   least two (2) references on all staff that enter the home of a waiver
   recipient.

   4215.8. Each provider of waiver services shall obtain a criminal background
   check on each direct care employee to be sent into a recipient&#8217;s home or
   permanent place of residence.

   4215.9. No employee of a provider of waiver services who has been convicted of
   a felony, a crime involving abuse, neglect, or violence against the person of
   another, or crime involving theft or larceny under Federal or state law shall
   provide service(s) to a recipient.

   4215.10. Each provider of waiver services shall conduct a performance
   evaluation of each case manager after the first three (3) months of employment
   and annually thereafter.

   4215.11. Each provider of waiver services that provides staff with hands-on
   responsibilities (for example, staff that has direct contact with
   recipient&#8217;s bodily fluids) shall ensure that the service provider is
   trained in universal precautions prior to the provision of any service.
   Universal precautions training shall be included as part of one of the annual
   continuing education classes. Documentation of universal precautions training
   shall be maintained in the employee&#8217;s file for a period of not less than
   six (6) years.

   4215.12. Each provider of waiver services shall establish and implement a
   process to ensure that each recipient has:
   
   
   
   (a)	Been informed of and given freedom of choice in the selection of all
   qualified providers of services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Been informed of his or her rights and responsibilities under the waiver
   program; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Exercised his or her choice and signed a &#8220;Waiver Beneficiary Freedom
   of Choice&#8221; form, either personally or through an authorized
   representative.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 9025 (October 24, 2003).
