                                  DC REGULATIONS

PERSONAL CARE AIDE (PCA)[COLON] QUALIFICATIONS (ยง 29-4221)

4221.1. Each personal care aide PCA shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be at least 18 years of age;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be a citizen of the United States or an alien who is lawfully authorized
   to work in the United States by providing documentation to meet the
   Immigration and Naturalization Services Form I-9 requirements;
   
   
   
   (c)	Complete a home health aide training program that includes at least
   seventy-five (75) hours of classroom training with at least sixteen (16) hours
   devoted to supervised practical training and pass a competency evaluation for
   those services which the Personal care aide (PCA) is required to perform
   consistent with the requirements set forth in 42 CFR 484.36. Each PCA shall
   provide a copy of certificate and competency evaluations;
   
   
   
   (d)	Be certified in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (&#8220;CPR&#8221;) and
   thereafter obtain CPR certification annually;
   
   
   
   (e)	Be able to read and write the English language at the fifth (5th) grade
   level and carry out instructions and directions;
   
   
   
   (f)	Be able to recognize an emergency and be knowledgeable about emergency
   procedures;
   
   
   
   (g)	Be knowledgeable about infection control procedures;
   
   
   
   (h)	Be acceptable to the recipient and not be a spouse or parent of a minor
   recipient, or other legally responsible relative;
   
   
   
   (i)	Demonstrate annually following the Centers for Disease Control (CDC)
   guidelines that he or she is free from communicable disease as confirmed by a
   chest x-ray or by an annual Purified Protein Derivative (PPD) Skin Test or
   documentation from a physician stating that the person is free from
   communicable disease;
   
   
   
   (j)	Pass a criminal background check pursuant to the Health-Care Facility
   Unlicensed Personnel Criminal Background Check Act of 1998, effective April
   20, 1999 (D.C. Law 12-238; D.C. official Code, ยง 44-551 et seq.); and
   
   
   
   (k)	Provide documentation of acceptance or declination of the Hepatitis
   vaccine.
   
   
   
   (l)	Be supervised by a registered nurse.

   4221.2. After the first year of service, each PCA shall complete at least
   twelve (12) hours of continuing education or in-service training annually. The
   in-service training may be furnished while the PCA is furnishing care to the
   recipient under the supervision of a registered nurse.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 9025 (October 24, 2003).
