                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIFIC PROVIDER REQUIREMENTS[COLON] CASE MANAGEMENT AND RELATED WAIVER
SERVICES (ยง 29-4216)

4216.1. Each individual providing case management and related waiver services
   shall meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be at least eighteen (18) years of age;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be a United States citizen or alien who is lawfully authorized to work in
   the United States;
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide proof of the supporting documents for the Immigration and
   Naturalizations Services Form I-9 requirements;
   
   
   
   (d)	Meet the minimum standards for providing case management services;
   personal care aide services; personal emergency response system services;
   respite services; homemaker services; chore aide services; and environmental
   accessibility adaptations services.
   
   
   
   (e)	Be able to read and write in English;
   
   
   
   (f)	Be acceptable to the recipient;
   
   
   
   (g)	Be free of active tuberculosis as confirmed by an annual purified protein
   derivative (PPD) skin test or chest x-ray;
   
   
   
   (h)	Be free of active tuberculosis and any other communicable disease; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Provide evidence of acceptance or declination of the Hepatitis vaccine.

   4216.2. Individuals conducting case management services shall meet one of the
   following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Have a current appropriate licensure, and have a Masters degree in social
   work, psychology, counseling, rehabilitation, nursing, gerontology, or
   sociology and have at least one (1) year of experience working with the
   elderly or individuals with physical disabilities;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have a current appropriate licensure and have a Bachelors degree in social
   work, psychology, counseling, rehabilitation, nursing, gerontology, or
   sociology and have two (2) years of experience working with the elderly or
   individuals with physical disabilities; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Have a current license as a Registered Nurse (RN), and have an Associate
   degree in nursing, and at least three (3) years of experience working with the
   elderly and individuals with physical disabilities.

   4216.3. Case management service providers shall not provide medical,
   financial, legal, or other service or advice for which they are not qualified
   or licensed to perform (except for referral to qualified individuals,
   agencies, or programs).

   4216.4. Each case management service provider is responsible for conducting a
   comprehensive assessment of the recipient by using the assessment tool that is
   provided by the MAA.

   4216.5. Each case management service provider shall conduct a comprehensive
   assessment within forty-eight (48) hours of receiving the wavier referral and
   prior to the development of the ISP.

   4216.6. Each case management service provider shall complete the written
   assessment and ISP within forty-eight (48) working hours of conducting the
   comprehensive assessment.

   4216.7. Each case management service provider shall include family members,
   friends of the recipient, and any other appropriate individual(s) in the
   initial recipient assessment and in the development and implementation of the
   ISP, as appropriate. The recipient or authorized representative shall have
   access to the ISP and shall be involved in the periodic review thereof.

   4216.8. A case management service provider shall submit to the MAA the
   following documentation for review and approval within seven (7) working days
   of its receipt:
   
   
   
   (a)	Documentation that the recipient is Medicaid-eligible and include the
   Medicaid application and supporting documents;
   
   
   
   (b)	A signed &#8220;Waiver Beneficiary Freedom of Choice Form;&#8221;
   
   
   
   (c)	Documentation of a comprehensive assessment (Recipient Health History);
   
   
   
   (d)	Bill of Rights and Responsibilities; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Completed ISP for review and approval.

   4216.9. It is the responsibility of the case management service provider to
   ensure that all other professional disciplines as identified for resolution of
   identified needs are incorporated into the ISP.

   4216.10. Each case management service provider shall maintain, follow, and
   continually update a training and supervision program to make sure the case
   management staff person who is responsible for the provision of case
   management services is fully trained and familiar with the waiver policies and
   procedures.

   4216.11. Each provider of case management services shall ensure that case
   management service providers are appropriately supervised and that the case
   management service provided is consistent with the recipient&#8217;s ISP.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 9025 (October 24, 2003).
