                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIFIC PROVIDER REQUIREMENTS[COLON] RESPITE SERVICES (ยง 29-4227)

4227.1. A respite care service provider can be a home health agency or
   business licensed to do business in the District of Columbia.

   4227.2. The home health agency or business providing respite care services to
   waiver recipients shall require the respite care staff to be certified as a
   home health aides or a personal care aides and complete twelve (12) hours of
   continuing education on an annual basis.

   4227.3. The continuing education for respite services shall be specifically
   designed to increase the staff&#8217;s knowledge and understanding of the
   recipient&#8217;s needs or the target population and to improve the
   staff&#8217;s skills at tasks performed in the provision of service(s) in
   accordance with applicable service standard.

   4227.4. Comprehensive records identifying dates of training and topics covered
   shall be maintained in each employee&#8217;s personnel file for a period of
   not less than six (6) years.

   4227.5. The respite care service provider shall develop and implement an
   individualized in-service training plan for each staff person when performance
   evaluations indicate a need.

   4227.6. If the recipient has a need for a respite care service provider, the
   case manager shall be notified immediately and shall order the service in the
   frequency and duration to meet the recipient&#8217;s needs.

   4227.7. The respite care service provider shall develop and implement an
   initial intake assessment that:
   
   
   
   (a)	Assesses the recipient&#8217;s respite needs; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The appropriate level of caregiver required to meet the identified needs.

   4227.8. A Registered Nurse (RN) who possesses the following qualifications
   shall conduct the initial intake assessment:
   
   
   
   (a)	Duly licensed to practice in the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	Is employed by the personal care aide agency, home health agency, or
   business; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Have at least one year of experience working with the elderly and
   individuals with physical disabilities.

   4227.9. In conducting the initial intake assessment, the RN shall also:
   
   
   
   (a)	Establish a written emergency notification plan for each recipient
   receiving respite care services; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Document that the emergency plan has been reviewed with the recipient or
   representative and the individual staff person who will provide the respite
   care.

   4227.10. A respite caregiver shall not leave the home or place of residence of
   the recipient during the period of time during which respite care is being
   provided unless the home care agency, home health agency, or business that is
   responsible for providing the services replaces the caregiver prior to the
   caregiver removing himself or herself from the recipient&#8217;s home or
   primary place of residence.

   4227.11. Each provider of respite services shall keep all documentation
   related to an emergency notification plan on file with the home care agency,
   home health agency, or business for a period not less than six (6) years. The
   waiver recipient shall also receive a copy of the emergency notification plan
   and shall keep it at his or her home or place of residence.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 9025 (October 24, 2003).
