                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROGRAM SERVICES[COLON] PERSONAL CARE AIDE SERVICES (ยง 29-4222)

4222.1. Personal care aide services shall be prescribed by a physician or
   Advanced Practice Nurse in accordance with the recipient&#8217;s plan of
   treatment.

   4222.2. The physician&#8217;s plan of care shall be developed initially, and
   the plan of care shall be re-certified by the physician or Advanced Practice
   Nurse every six (6) months thereafter. The plan must be signed by the
   physician or Advanced Practice Nurse within thirty (30) days of its
   prescription.

   4222.3. Personal care aide services shall be initiated no later than
   forty-eight (48) hours after completion of the initial assessment unless the
   recipient or the recipient&#8217;s representative agree to a later date to
   begin the services.

   4222.4. A waiver recipient may choose an individual or family member other
   than a spouse, or parent of a minor recipient or other legally responsible
   relative to provide personal care services. Each family member providing
   personal care services shall meet the requirements set forth in ยง 4221 of
   this chapter.

   4222.5. Personal care services include, but are not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Basic personal care including bathing, grooming, assistance with
   toileting, or bed pan use;
   
   
   
   (b)	Changing urinary drainage bags;
   
   
   
   (c)	Assisting recipients with range of motion exercises;
   
   
   
   (d)	Assisting recipients with self-administered medications. The aide may
   remind the recipient to take the medication but cannot administer the
   medication to the recipient;
   
   
   
   (e)	Reading and recording temperature, pulse, and respiration;
   
   
   
   (f)	Observing and documenting the recipient&#8217;s status and verbally
   reporting to the registered nurse or the case manager the findings immediately
   for emergency situations and within four (4) hours for other situations;
   
   
   
   (g)	Meal preparation in accordance with dietary guidelines and assistance with
   eating or feeding;
   
   
   
   (h)	Tasks related to keeping the recipient&#8217;s living areas in a condition
   that promotes the recipient&#8217;s health, and comfort, and safety;
   
   
   
   (i)	Accompanying the recipient to medically-related appointments or place of
   employment;
   
   
   
   (j)	Providing assistance at the recipient&#8217;s place of employment;
   
   
   
   (k)	Shopping for items related to promoting the recipient&#8217;s nutritional
   status and other health needs;
   
   
   
   (l)	Recording and reporting to the supervisory health professional and case
   manager any changes in the recipient&#8217;s physical condition, behavior, or
   appearance;
   
   
   
   (m)	Infection control; and
   
   
   
   (n)	Accompanying the recipient to approved recreational activities.

   4222.6. Personal care aide services shall not include services that require
   the skills of a licensed professional, such as catheter insertion, procedures
   requiring the use of sterile techniques, and administration of medication.

   4222.7. Personal care aide services shall not include tasks usually performed
   by chore workers, such as cleaning of areas not occupied by the recipient,
   laundry for family members, and shopping for items not used by the recipient.

   4222.8. Personal care aide services shall be provided in the recipient&#8217;s
   place of residence or other location such as the recipient&#8217;s place of
   employment or assistance while in transit and shall be made available seven
   (7) days per week.

   4222.9. Personal care aide services shall not be provided in a hospital,
   nursing facility, intermediate care facility for the mentally retarded, or
   institution for mental disease.

   4222.10. When a recipient is receiving PCA services and homemaker services
   from two different staff persons who are employees of the same agency, all
   supervisory registered nurse (RN) visits shall be coordinated so that
   supervisory in-home RN visits are made in accordance with waiver standards and
   the supervisory in-home RN visits are made by the same supervising RN at the
   same time.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 9025 (October 24, 2003).
