                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPEAL RIGHTS FOR PROVIDERS AGAINST WHOM A RECOUPMENT IS MADE (ยง 29-4237)

4237.1. The provider shall have sixty (60) days from the date of the Notice of
   Recoupment (NR) to request, in writing, an Administrative Review of the NR.
   The request for administrative review shall be submitted to the Chief, Office
   of Program Integrity, Medical Assistance Administration, D.C. Department of
   Health.

   4237.2. The written request for Administrative Review shall include a specific
   description of the item to be reviewed, the reason for the request for review,
   the relief requested, and documentation in support of the relief requested.

   4237.3. The MAA shall mail a written determination relative to the
   Administrative Review to the provider no later than one hundred and twenty
   (120) days from the date of the written request for Administrative Review.

   4237.4. Filing an appeal with the Board of Appeals and Review shall not stay
   any action to recover any overpayment to the provider. The provider shall be
   liable to the Medicaid Program for any overpayments as set forth in the
   Medicaid Program determination.

   4237.5. Payments otherwise authorized to be made to a provider under the
   District of Columbia Medicaid Program may be suspended, in whole or in part,
   by MAA to recover or aid in the recovery of overpayments that have been made
   to the provider.

   4237.6. The MAA shall notify the provider of its intention to suspend
   payments, in whole or in part, and the reasons for making the suspension. The
   notice to providers shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The factual basis for the determination of overpayments including the
   dollar value of the overpayment;
   
   
   
   (b)	How the overpayment was computed; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Specific reference to the section of the statute, rule, provider&#8217;s
   manual, or provider agreement that is the basis for the recoupment.

   4237.7. Any provider that disagrees with the reason for a recoupment or the
   amount of the recoupment shall have sixty (60) days from the date of the
   Notice of Recoupment to submit a written request for Administrative Review to
   the Chief, Office of Program Integrity, Medical Assistance Administration,
   D.C. Department of Health.

   4237.8. The written request for Administrative Review shall include a specific
   description of the item to be reviewed, the reason for the request for review,
   the relief requested, and documentation in support of the relief requested.

   4237.9. Within forty-five (45) days of receipt of the Medicaid Program&#8217;s
   written determination, the provider may appeal the written determination by
   filing a written Notice of Appeal with the Board of Appeals and Review, 441
   4th Street, NW, Suite 540, Washington, D.C. 20001.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 9025 (October 24, 2003).
