                                  DC REGULATIONS

RESPONSIBILITIES OF CASE MANAGERS (§ 29-4218)

A case manager shall establish a specific written ISP for each recipient of
   waiver services and shall ensure, at a minimum, that the ISP is in accordance
   with the requirements of subsections §§ 4201 through 4204 of this chapter.

   4218.1. Each case manager shall not have a recipient caseload greater than
   forty-five (45) persons (inclusive of Medicaid and non-Medicaid recipients)
   when the service provision is not supported by the services of a case
   management aide. In cases where the provision of case management services are
   supported by the services of a case management aide, the case management
   service provider shall not have a recipient caseload greater than fifty (50)
   persons (inclusive of Medicaid and non-Medicaid recipients).

   4218.2. The case manager shall utilize uniform documentation forms as provided
   and directed by the MAA.

   4218.3. The case manager shall ensure that all of the documents listed in §
   4216.8 are submitted to the MAA for review and approval of services. The MAA
   shall approve or disapprove the ISP within seven (7) working days of its
   receipt.

   4218.4. The case manager shall conduct a comprehensive reassessment of the
   recipient and ensure completion of all waiver documents listed in § 4216.8 on
   an annual basis prior to expiration of the current certification period and
   submitting the waiver package to the MAA for review and approval.

   4218.5. Following the approval of service from the MAA, the case manager shall
   follow-up promptly with the selected providers of services to ensure that all
   services are in place, and that the quantity and quality of services are
   sufficient to meet the identified needs of the recipient.

   4218.6. The case manager shall ensure that the recipient is given free choice
   of all qualified providers of each service included in his or her written ISP.

   4218.7. Each case manager who provides direct case management services is
   required to assist the recipient in accessing all necessary services that are
   available to the recipient and that are necessary to maintaining the recipient
   in the community whether they are Medicaid (State Plan) services, Medicaid
   (waiver) services, or non-Medicaid financed services.

   4218.8. Each case manager shall attend training sessions as scheduled and
   required by the MAA in order to promote the efficient and effective delivery
   of Medicaid-financed services.

   4218.9. Each case manager shall develop and implement a utilization review
   plan to ensure non-duplication of services being provided to the recipient.
   The utilization review plan shall also evaluate the appropriateness,
   efficiency, adequacy, and coordination of services with the objective of
   achieving the least costly, yet most appropriate delivery of waiver services.

   4218.10. When conducting quarterly reviews, the case manager shall also
   include the following documentation as part of the complete synopsis of the
   recipient&#8217;s care and outcomes for a defined period:
   
   
   
   (a)	Utilization of services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Communication with other providers regarding the recipient&#8217;s goals
   and progress;
   
   
   
   (c)	Identification and resolution of problems; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Referrals or linkages to community resources.

   4218.11. The case manager shall ensure that a home assessment is conducted (by
   a licensed physician or a licensed physical therapist) prior to ordering EAA
   service(s) on the ISP. The signed assessment form shall be submitted to the
   MAA with the ISP.

   4218.12. Prior to initiating EAA services, the case manager shall obtain an
   evaluation from a Construction Analyst or Housing Inspector. The evaluation
   must substantiate that the home is in a condition that is structurally sound
   to accommodate each ordered service(s) and include any stipulation(s) or
   recommendation(s) on how the service(s) should be implemented.

   4218.13. Each case manager shall develop (and be prepared to implement)
   twenty-four (24) hour emergency service(s), should the recipient so require.

   4218.14. Each case manager shall approve requests for changes, additions, or
   termination of services utilizing the &#8220;Request for Change in
   Services&#8221; form, amending the ISP to reflect the requested changes, and
   submitting the change request and amended ISP to MAA for review and approval.
   Only the case manager shall admit, request a change in services, or discharge
   a recipient from the waiver program.

   4218.15. The case manager may terminate waiver services when at least one (1)
   of the following conditions exist:
   
   
   
   (a)	The recipient no longer meets the financial eligibility criteria;
   
   
   
   (b)	The recipient expires;
   
   
   
   (c)	The recipient has moved out of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (d)	The recipient&#8217;s condition has improved, and the recipient no longer
   requires assistance with activities of daily living (ADL) and instrumental
   activities of daily living (IADL) as per the level of care criteria;
   
   
   
   (e)	The recipient (if competent to make decisions) requests termination of
   services;
   
   
   
   (f)	The recipient has been permanently placed in an institution;
   
   
   
   (g)	The recipient&#8217;s certification period has ended and the recipient
   remains institutionalized;
   
   
   
   (h)	The recipient is unwilling to use available services and the
   multidisciplinary team is unable to propose a plan that is acceptable to the
   recipient; and
   
   
   
   (i)	The recipient&#8217;s behavior poses a risk to the safety and well being
   of the provider staff.

   4218.16. If the termination of services is based on §§ 4218.15(h) or
   4218.15(i), the case manager shall provide the recipient or authorized
   representative with a written thirty (30) day notice in advance of the date of
   termination that shall include but is not limited to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Decision to terminate the services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Reason for termination of services;
   
   
   
   (c)	Copy of waiver standards supporting the termination decision;
   
   
   
   (d)	Copy of the directory of other waiver providers; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Information on the recipient&#8217;s right to a Fair Hearing and
   instructions for obtaining a Fair Hearing.

   4218.17. If a recipient desires to transfer to another provider of services,
   the case manager shall assist the recipient or authorized representative in
   the selection of a new provider(s) and ensure a smooth and complete transfer
   of the recipient to the selected provider(s).

   4218.18. If the behavior of a resident poses an immediate threat to the safety
   and well being of the provider staff, the case manager shall immediately
   suspend or terminate the recipient&#8217;s services. Suspension of services
   shall not exceed thirty (30) days.

   4218.19. Within seventy-two (72) hours of suspension, the case manager shall
   notify the recipient or authorized representative in writing of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Grounds for suspension; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The recipient&#8217;s right to appeal the suspension.

   4218.20. At the end of the suspension period, the case manager may re-instate
   or terminate the recipient&#8217;s services.

   4218.21. The recipient shall be provided with a notice of termination at least
   fifteen (15) days before the effective date of termination, if the decision is
   made to terminate the services.

   4218.22. The case manager shall document monthly (within thirty (30) days)
   in-home visits and telephone contacts within the recipient&#8217;s record.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 9025 (October 24, 2003).
