                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIFIC PROVIDER REQUIREMENTS[COLON] PERSONAL EMERGENCY RESPONSE SERVICES
(PERS) (ยง 29-4225)

4225.1. Each PERS provider shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provide in-home installation of all equipment necessary to make the
   service fully operational (including batteries);
   
   
   
   (b)	Conduct recipient and representative instruction on usage, maintenance,
   and emergency protocol of the PERS;
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide equipment maintenance (both in-home and response center);
   
   
   
   (d)	Provide twenty-four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week response
   center monitoring and support;
   
   
   
   (e)	Conduct equipment testing, monitoring, and maintenance (both in-home and
   response center equipment);
   
   
   
   (f)	Conduct monthly service checks;
   
   
   
   (g)	Provide documentation of all services provided, recipient contacts,
   equipment and system checks, and equipment servicing;
   
   
   
   (i)	Make available emergency equipment repair to the recipient on a
   twenty-four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week basis; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Allow the recipient to designate respondent(s) who will respond to
   emergency calls. Respondents may be relatives, friends, neighbors, or medical
   personnel.

   4225.2. A PERS will not be provided to waiver recipients who:
   
   
   
   (a)	Are unable to understand and demonstrate proper use of the system; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Live with a person who assumes responsibility for providing care (to the
   recipient) and the waiver recipient is not left alone for significant periods
   of time.

   4225.3. Each provider of PERS services shall ensure that contractors are
   properly supervised and that the service provided is consistent with the
   recipient&#8217;s ISP.

   4225.4. A provider of PERS service shall be exempt from the requirement to
   comply with an annual tuberculosis (TB) test; and

   4225.5. A provider of PERS service shall be licensed to do business in the
   state in which it is incorporated.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 9025 (October 24, 2003).
