                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIFIC PROVIDER REQUIREMENTS[COLON] CHORE AIDE SERVICES (ยง 29-4231)

4231.1. A home care, home health agency, or business providing chore aide
   services shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Require that all persons providing chore services successfully complete a
   Homemaker or Health Aides Training and Certification Program. The training
   shall meet all the requirements of the D.C. Department of Health, Health
   Regulations Administration governing home health aides;
   
   
   
   (b)	Require that chore aides complete a minimum of six (6) hours of continuing
   education on an annual basis. Initial training must be completed before a
   chore aide is assigned to a recipient&#8217;s home;
   
   
   
   (c)	Require continuing education for chore aide services that shall be
   specifically designed to increase the staff&#8217;s knowledge and
   understanding of the population served and to improve the skill level of the
   staff regarding the tasks performed in the provision of service(s) in
   accordance with general service standards and each applicable service rule;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	Maintain comprehensive records identifying dates of training and topics
   covered in each employee&#8217;s personnel file for a period of not less than
   six (6) years. An individualized in-service training plan shall be developed
   and implemented for each staff person when performance evaluations indicate a
   need.

   4231.2. A chore aide service provider shall provide a pre- and post-cleaning
   inspection of the home or place of residence with documentation indicating
   that the home environment has been placed in a state of readiness for ongoing,
   routine housekeeping.

   4231.3. In the case of rental property and residential facilities, the case
   manager shall examine the existing responsibilities of the landlord or
   homeowner, pursuant to the lease agreement (or other applicable laws and
   regulations) prior to authorization of chore aide services. The case manager
   shall ensure that the requisite documents have been reviewed prior to ordering
   chore aide services on the ISP.

   4231.4. Each home care, home health agency, or business providing chore aide
   services shall ensure that appropriate supervision of chore staff is conducted
   by an individual identified as one who is:
   
   
   
   (a)	Trained to evaluate the activities of chore staff personnel;
   
   
   
   (b)	Has at least two (2) years of experience supervising chore staff
   activities; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Has been provided with training in basic supervision by the home care,
   home health agency, or business.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 9025 (October 24, 2003).
