                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS[COLON] WAIVER SERVICES (§ 29-4299)

4299.1. When use in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning
   ascribed:
   
   
   
   Activities of Daily Living &#8211; shall have the same meaning as set forth in
   D.C. Official Code § 44-102.01(1).
   
   
   
   Advanced Practice Registered Nurse &#8211; a person who is licensed or
   authorized to practice as an advanced practice registered nurse pursuant to
   the District of Columbia Health Occupations Revisions Act of 1985, effective
   March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1201 et seq.).
   
   
   
   Assisted Living Services &#8211; hands-on care provided in an assisted living
   residence, of both a supportive and health-related nature, specific to the
   needs of an older person or a person with disabilities. Supportive services
   include activities associated with providing or coordinating personalized
   assistance through activities of daily living, recreational activities, 24
   hour supervision, and provision or coordination of health services and
   instrumental activities of daily living.
   
   
   
   Assisted Living Residence &#8211; shall have the same meaning as set forth in
   D.C. Official Code § 44-102.01 (4).
   
   
   
   Case Management Agency &#8211; an agency under contract with the Medical
   Assistance Administration (MAA) to provide case management services to waiver
   recipients.
   
   
   
   Case Management Services &#8211; services that assist an applicant or
   recipient in gaining access to Medicaid waiver services and Medicaid State
   Plan services.
   
   
   
   Case Manager &#8211; a staff person from the case management agency who
   performs case management services.
   
   
   
   Chore Aide &#8211; one-time non-medical, non-continuous household remediation
   tasks intended to place the home environment in a clean, sanitary, and safe
   condition, and to prepare the home environment for ongoing routine home care
   services.
   
   
   
   Communicable Disease &#8211; as defined in D.C. Official Code § 7-132 and 22
   DCMR § 201 of the District of Columbia Public Health and Medicine
   Regulations.
   
   
   
   Emergency Situation &#8211; any urgent condition perceived as requiring
   immediate medical or significant intervention or one in which the perceived
   behavior poses a risk or danger to oneself or others.
   
   
   
   Environmental Accessibility Adaptation (EAA) &#8211; physical adaptations to
   the home that are necessary to ensure the health, welfare, and safety of the
   individual, or that enable the individual to function with greater
   independence in the home, and without which, the individual would require
   institutionalization.
   
   
   
   Handicap Accessibility Improvement Program (HAIP) &#8211; a program offered by
   the D.C. Department of Housing and Community Development, Residential and
   Community Services Division, that offers assistance to low income disabled
   individuals who need to improve accessibility and remove barriers restricting
   mobility within their homes.
   
   
   
   Family &#8211; any person related to the recipient by blood, marriage, or
   adoption.
   
   
   
   Home- and Community-Based Services (HCBS) &#8211; the entire range of
   supportive services that help the elderly or persons with physical
   disabilities live independently in their homes and communities.
   
   
   
   Home and Community-Based Waiver- known as the 1915(c) waiver under the Social
   Security Act that allows a state Medicaid Program to offer to beneficiaries at
   risk of institutionalization in a nursing facility or facility for the
   mentally retarded a number of services that would otherwise not be covered
   with federal matching funds.
   
   
   
   Home Health Agency &#8211; an agency, organization, or distinct part thereof,
   other than a hospice, that provides, either directly or through a contractual
   arrangement, a program of health care, habilitative or rehabilitative therapy,
   personal care services, homemaker services, chore services, or other
   supportive services to sick or disabled individuals living at home or in a
   community residence facility. The term &#8220;home health agency&#8221; shall
   not be construed to require the regulation and licensure of non-medical
   services delivered by or through a religious organization on a small-scale,
   volunteer basis.
   
   
   
   Homemaker &#8211; services consisting of general household activities (meal
   preparation, and routine household care) when the individual regularly
   responsible for these activities is temporarily absent, unable to manage the
   home, or care for himself/herself.
   
   
   
   Individualized Service Plan (ISP) &#8211; a plan of action formalized with the
   recipient/representative and one or more health care professionals based upon
   the nature of the recipient&#8217;s illness and identified needs. The plan
   includes the recipient&#8217;s health care and supportive needs, and the
   approaches recommended for meeting those needs. Modifications are made to the
   plan, as required, to ensure the optimal outcomes for the recipient.
   
   
   
   Instrumental Activities of Daily Living-shall have the same meaning as set
   forth in D.C. Official Code § 44-102.01 (15).
   
   
   
   Medicaid &#8211; a federal-state program established by Title XIX of the
   Social Security Act, which provides payment of medical expenses for eligible
   persons who meet income and/or other criteria.
   
   
   
   Medical Assistance Administration (MAA) &#8211; the Administration within the
   District of Columbia Department of Health responsible for administering all
   Medicaid services under Title XIX (Medicaid) for eligible participants,
   including the Medicaid Managed Care Program and oversight of its managed care
   contractors.
   
   
   
   Personal Care Aide &#8211; a person who has successfully completed the state
   or District of Columbia established training program and meets the competency
   evaluation requirements. Tasks include assistance with activities of daily
   living and instrumental activities of daily living.
   
   
   
   Personal Care Aide Services &#8211; services involving assistance with one or
   more activities of daily living that is rendered by a qualified personal care
   aide under the supervision of a registered nurse.
   
   
   
   Personal Emergency Response System (PERS) &#8211; an electronic system that
   enables an individual to secure help in an emergency from a friend, relative,
   or an emergency service provider (police, fire department, or ambulance). PERS
   services are limited to those recipients who live alone or are alone for
   significant parts of the day and who have no regular caregiver for extended
   periods of time, and who would otherwise require extensive routine
   supervision.
   
   
   
   Physician &#8211; a person who is licensed or authorized to practice medicine
   pursuant to the District of Columbia Health Occupations Revisions Act of 1985,
   effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code, § 3-1201 et
   seq.).
   
   
   
   Provider &#8211; any entity that meets the waiver service requirements, has
   signed an agreement with MAA to provide those services, and is enrolled by MAA
   to provide services to waiver recipients.
   
   
   
   Purified Protein Derivative (PPD) &#8211; a tuberculin solution that is used
   in skin tests for tuberculosis.
   
   
   
   Registered Nurse &#8211; a person who is licensed or authorized to practice
   registered nursing pursuant to the District of Columbia Health Occupations
   Revisions Act of 1985, effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official
   Code, § 3-1201 et seq.).
   
   
   
   Resident- shall have the same meaning as set forth in D.C. Official Code §
   44-102.01 (19).
   
   
   
   Respite &#8211; services that include the provision of companionship,
   supervision, or assistance with activities of daily living and instrumental
   activities of daily living for waiver recipients in their home or temporary
   place of residence in the temporary absence of the primary caregiver. Respite
   services may also be provided in a Medicaid certified nursing facility or a
   group home.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 9025(October 24, 2003); Final
   Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 9165 (September 21, 2007).
