                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT OF DEPOSITIONS (ยง 15-126)

126.1. The court reporter before whom the deposition is to be taken shall put
   the deponent under oath or affirmation and shall personally, or by someone
   acting under his or her direction and in his or her presence, record the
   testimony of the deponent.

   126.2. The testimony shall be transcribed unless the parties agree otherwise.

   126.3. All objections made at the time of the examination to the manner of
   taking the deposition or the evidence presented, or to the conduct of any
   party, and any other objections to the proceedings, shall be noted by the
   court reporter upon the deposition. Evidence objected to shall be taken
   subject to the objections.

   126.4. Any party served with a notice to take an oral deposition, may
   cross-examine a deponent whose testimony is taken under that deposition. In
   lieu of cross-examination, parties served with notice of taking a deposition
   may transmit written interrogatories or cross-interrogatories to the court
   reporter taking the deposition, who shall propound them to the deponent and
   record the answers verbatim together with any objection interposed thereto by
   adverse parties.

   126.5. When the testimony is fully transcribed the deposition of each deponent
   shall be submitted to him or her for examination and shall be read to or by
   him or her.

   126.6. Any changes in form or substance which the deponent desires to make
   shall be entered upon the deposition by the court reporter with a statement of
   the reasons given by the deponent for making them.

   126.7. The deposition shall then be signed by the deponent, unless the parties
   by stipulation waive the signing or the deponent is ill or cannot be found or
   refuses to sign.

   126.8. If the deposition is not signed by the deponent, the court reporter
   shall sign it and state on the record the fact of the waiver or of the illness
   or absence of the deponent or the fact of the refusal to sign together with
   the reason, if any, given therefor; and the deposition may then be used as
   fully as though signed, unless on a motion to suppress, the Commission holds
   that the reasons given for the refusal to sign required rejection of the
   deposition in whole or in part.

   126.9. The court reporter taking the deposition shall certify on the
   deposition that the deponent was duly sworn or put on affirmation by him or
   her and that the deposition is a true record of the testimony given by the
   deponent, and that the court reporter is not of counsel or attorney to either
   of the parties, or interested in the event or the proceeding or investigation.

   126.10. The court reporter shall then securely seal the deposition in an
   envelope endorsed with the title of the action and marked &#8220;Deposition of
   [here insert name of deponent]&#8221; and shall promptly send the original and
   three (3) copies of all exhibits, where practicable, by registered mail to the
   Commission.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 2984, 3004 (July 3, 1981); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 5117, 5122 (July 10, 1992).
