                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT DURING PROCEEDINGS (ยง 15-111)

111.1. In addition to the requirements of ยง 108, any attorney who
   participates in any proceeding before the Commission shall comply with the
   rules and regulations of the Commission and shall adhere to the standards of
   the ethical conduct required of attorneys before the courts of the District of
   Columbia and the District of Columbia Code of Professional Conduct.

   111.2. No restrictions in this section shall preclude an attorney from
   replying to charges of misconduct publicly made against him or her, or from
   participating in the proceedings of legislative, administrative, or other
   investigative bodies.

   111.3. In all proceedings before the Commission, no attorney, other than the
   Commission&#8217;s General Counsel or his or her designee, shall communicate,
   or cause another to communicate as to the merits of the cause, with any
   Commissioner or examiner before whom the proceeding is pending, except as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	In the course of official proceedings in the cause; and
   
   
   
   (b)	In writing directed to the Secretary of the Commission with copies served
   upon all other counsel of record.

   111.4. It is improper for any party, or person representing a party, in a case
   before the Commission to attempt to sway the judgment of the Commission in
   that case by undertaking directly or indirectly, through a third party outside
   the hearing process, to bring pressure or influence to bear upon the
   Commission, its Staff, or the presiding officer assigned to the proceeding.

   111.5. Requests for expeditious treatment of matters pending with the
   Commission are improper except when filed with the Secretary and copies served
   upon all other parties or unless made before the Commission or its hearing
   agent at a hearing.

   111.6. No member of the Commission, presiding officer, or employee of the
   Commission shall invite or knowingly entertain any prohibited ex parte
   communication, or make any communication to any party or counsel or agent of a
   party, or any other person who he or she has reason to know may transmit that
   communication to a party or party&#8217;s agent.

   111.7. The Commission may disqualify and deny temporarily or permanently, the
   privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way to any individual
   who, after a hearing, is found to have violated the requirements of this
   section. Violations of the requirements of this section by attorneys shall be
   referred to the appropriate District of Columbia Bar Committee for
   investigation.

   111.8. Conduct amounting to contempt at any hearing before the Commission or a
   member of the Commission or before a presiding officer of the Commission shall
   be grounds for exclusion from the hearing and for summary suspension without a
   hearing for the duration of the hearing or of the proceeding, or any part
   thereof.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 2984, 2995 (July 3, 1981); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 5117, 5119 (July 10, 1992).
