                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION (ยง 15-150)

150.1. Any materials submitted by a party, which it claims are confidential or
   proprietary, shall be filed under seal and shall not be used except in
   connection with the proceeding in which the material is filed.

   150.2. All submissions filed under seal shall be made available only to
   parties and persons who have signed an appropriate confidentiality or
   proprietary agreement with the party claiming its information is proprietary.
   Information obtained pursuant to the execution of a
   confidentiality/proprietary agreement with the party claiming its information
   is proprietary shall be held solely for use in or in preparation of briefs,
   comments, documents and exhibits, data responses, cross-examination, other
   pleadings, petitions for reconsideration or appeals in the regulatory
   proceeding in which the information was originally obtained.

   150.3. If any party intends to use or actually uses information in briefs,
   comments, testimony, exhibits, data responses, cross-examination, or other
   documents to be filed in a case which information is obtained pursuant to a
   confidentiality or proprietary agreement, the following shall apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The brief, comments, testimony, exhibits, data responses, or other
   documents containing the alleged proprietary information shall be sealed and
   delivered to the Commission Secretary by that party and to those other parties
   which have signed an appropriate confidentiality or proprietary agreement. An
   original and twelve (12) copies shall be filed under seal with the Commission
   Secretary;
   
   
   
   (b)	The pages containing allegedly proprietary information shall be clearly
   marked and the cover of the documents shall indicate that proprietary
   information is contained inside;
   
   
   
   (c)	Parties who have not signed an appropriate confidentiality or proprietary
   agreement shall receive the briefs, comments, testimony, exhibits, data
   responses, or other documents with the alleged proprietary information omitted
   and the following notice inserted: &#8220;This portion contains information
   which alleges to be proprietary. Please contact for an appropriate proprietary
   agreement or file with the Commission for a Proprietary Information
   Determination. Parties may seek a Commission ruling on contention at any time
   in this proceeding.&#8221; An original and twenty-five (25) copies of the
   document shall be filed with the Commission and served upon all parties;
   
   
   
   (d)	Cross-examination by any party, involving that information which another
   party alleges to be proprietary, shall be conducted during proceedings which
   shall be closed to all those who have not signed an appropriate proprietary or
   confidentiality agreement; Provided, that there has been no prior Commission
   determination that such information is not proprietary. The transcript of the
   proceeding shall be kept under seal; and
   
   
   
   (e)	If any party challenges the appropriateness of a claim that information is
   proprietary or confidential, the procedures set forth under ยง150.5 of this
   chapter shall apply.

   150.4. If a party, who has not signed a proprietary agreement with the party
   claiming its information is proprietary, desires to obtain proprietary
   information from a party that has the information, either through obtaining
   data requests, during the cross-examination hearing, or through obtaining
   sealed briefs, comments, testimony or exhibits, the requesting party shall do
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Contact the party claiming its information is proprietary for an
   appropriate proprietary agreement; or
   
   
   
   (b)	File with the Commission for a Proprietary Information Determination under
   ยง150.5.

   150.5. If at any time a party challenges a claim of the party who asserts that
   its information is proprietary, the following procedures shall apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The party challenging the claim that information is proprietary shall file
   with the Commission for a proprietary Information Determination, which shall
   consist of a request for a ruling on whether the particular information is
   proprietary (hereafter referred to as &#8220;Proprietary Information
   Determination Request&#8221;). Copies of the Proprietary Information
   Determination Request shall be hand-delivered to the Commission, the party
   claiming that its information is proprietary, and signatories to the
   proprietary agreement. Parties to the proceeding who have not signed the
   proprietary agreement shall only receive notice that a Proprietary Information
   Determination Request has been filed rather than a copy of the filing;
   
   
   
   (b)	When any Proprietary Information Determination Request has been filed, the
   party claiming that its information is proprietary shall deliver under seal
   all of the relevant documents to the Commission Secretary for an in camera
   inspection by the Commission and its authorized agents;
   
   
   
   (c)	When a Proprietary Information Determination Request has been filed, the
   party claiming that its information is proprietary shall deliver to the
   Commission the relevant proprietary agreements signed by each party permitted
   access to the alleged proprietary information;
   
   
   
   (d)	The party claiming that its information is proprietary, without order or
   action from the Commission, shall file an initial brief stating in detail the
   basis of its proprietary claim within five (5) days after the Proprietary
   Information Determination Request is filed. Within five (5) days thereafter,
   the party that challenged the proprietary claim shall file a detailed brief in
   response to the initial brief of the party claiming that its information is
   proprietary. Within three (3) days after that filing, the party claiming that
   its information is proprietary may file a reply brief. If either the initial
   or reply brief of the party claiming that its information is proprietary or
   the brief of the party challenging the claim uses information that allegedly
   is proprietary, those pleadings shall be filed under seal;
   
   
   
   (e)	The burden of ultimately persuading the Commission that the subject
   information is proprietary is upon the party claiming that its information is
   proprietary; and
   
   
   
   (f)	A party shall not make public, information regarding the disputed
   proprietary information until a ruling is received from the Commission.
   Following the ruling, the information shall be made available only pursuant to
   the Commission&#8217;s order; Provided, that an application for
   reconsideration of the Commission&#8217;s order filed by the party claiming
   that its information is proprietary will act as a stay of such order pending
   reconsideration.

   150.6. If an appeal is taken from a final Commission order in the regulatory
   proceeding, all information under seal at that time shall remain until the
   District of Columbia Court of Appeals issues an order on the appeal.

   150.7. The parties retain the right to object to the admissibility of any
   specific proprietary information on any proper grounds, including relevancy or
   materiality to the proceeding.

   150.8. When the Commission&#8217;s order in the regulatory proceeding is final
   and no longer subject to appeal, the sealed portion of the Commission&#8217;s
   record shall be retained under seal by the Commission. All parties and persons
   having material furnished pursuant to a proprietary agreement (including, but
   not limited to, notes or records made from such material) or copies of
   documents kept under seal by the Commission during the course of such
   proceeding (including, but not limited to, briefs, comments, testimony,
   exhibits, transcripts, and data responses), upon request by the party claiming
   that its information is proprietary, shall deliver all such material to that
   party.

   150.9. Access to the documents kept under seal by the Commission shall be
   limited to the Commission, its assistants and agents, and those parties who
   have executed a proprietary agreement.

   150.10. All persons or parties executing a proprietary agreement shall be
   responsible for the protection of the confidentiality of any proprietary
   information in their control.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 5117, 5125 (July 10, 1992).
