                                  DC REGULATIONS

ELECTRONIC FILING PROCEDURES (§ 15-118)

118.1. All filings shall be filed electronically, with the exception of the
   following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Filings containing confidential or personal information;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Filings by individuals in consumer complaint cases; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Filings by individuals in proceedings other than consumer complaint cases.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Confidential filings shall be submitted in person or by mail; however,
   			when a confidential filing is made, the corresponding public version shall
   			be filed electronically on the same day.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	All electronic filings shall be considered filed when the Commission has
   received the electronic submission, unless the electronic submission has been
   rejected under subsection 118.7.

   118.4. For good cause shown, a party may submit a paper filing in lieu of an
   			electronic filing.  All paper filings shall comply with sections 113, 114,
   			115, and 116 of this chapter.

   118.5. Filings may be submitted electronically twenty-four (24) hours a day,
   seven (7) days a week.  If a filing is received outside of Commission business
   hours, it shall be docketed the next business day.

   118.6. Parties shall receive from the Office of the Commission Secretary an
   electronic acknowledgment of their submission once file transmission is
   complete.  The acknowledgment shall contain the name and size of the file,
   case number, party name, date, and the time the Commission’s server received
   the last byte of information.

   118.7. After reviewing an electronic filing to ensure that it meets the
   Commission’s electronic filing requirements, the Office of the Commission
   Secretary shall send a notice of acceptance or a notice of rejection.  The
   notice of acceptance shall provide the filing’s case number, item number,
   the date and time of receipt, and the official filing date.  If the filing
   does not meet the Commission’s requirements, then the Office of the
   Commission Secretary shall send a notice of rejection explaining the reason(s)
   for rejection by the end of the next business day.  A notice of rejection
   extends any applicable deadline through the end of the next business day.

   118.8. To electronically file a document with the Commission, filers must
   complete and submit the electronic filing registration form to the Office of
   the Commission Secretary.  If this form is approved, the Office of Commission
   Secretary will issue a user ID and password.  When registering, a user must
   explicitly agree to the terms of the eDocket system Compliance Agreement.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 8721 (September 20, 2002); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 10631, 10632
   (December 16, 2011).
