                                  DC REGULATIONS

SETTLEMENT AND STIPULATION CONFERENCES (ยง 15-130)

130.1. Unless otherwise ordered, counsel for the Staff shall not initiate
   arrangements for an initial settlement conference. Staff shall not schedule a
   conference prior to any deadlines which may exist for filing petitions to
   intervene in or to become a party to a proceeding.

   130.2. Staff shall file a report on the outcome of the initial settlement
   conference within ten (10) days after the convening of the conference.

   130.3. The initial settlement conference scheduled by the Staff under this
   section shall not preclude the parties from meeting at any other times as they
   deem necessary for the purpose of settlement and stipulation.

   130.4. All parties shall be allowed to file proposed orders on matters of
   agreement.

   130.5. All parties participating in settlement conferences shall do so either
   personally or through representatives empowered to act on behalf of the party
   and ultimately bind the party to any settlement.

   130.6. Statements made and documents considered by parties during the course
   of settlement negotiations and conferences shall be confidential and
   non-discoverable, and shall not be admissible as evidence or raised in
   arguments by parties.

   130.7. All filings contemplated under this section shall recite, in addition
   to the matters agreed upon at the conference, the date, time, and place of the
   conference, and the names of the parties in attendance.

   130.8. A party may waive the confidentiality of its own disclosures. A party
   who has made public disclosures about matters that have also been considered
   in settlement negotiations and conferences may be deemed to have waived the
   confidentiality of its own disclosures, but not those of other parties.

   130.9. In order to ensure the confidentiality of settlement proceedings,
   persons who are not parties may be excluded from settlement conferences and
   negotiations.

   130.10. Settlements may be presented at any time prior to the issuance of a
   final decision. When a settlement is presented to the Commission, the
   settlement shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be reduced to writing;
   
   
   
   (b)	Contain all of the terms and conditions agreed upon by the signatories;
   
   
   
   (c)	Be clearly and accurately labeled unanimous or nonunanimous;
   
   
   
   (d)	Be clearly and accurately labeled partial or full;
   
   
   
   (e)	Indicate whether any party who has not executed the settlement will oppose
   its adoption;
   
   
   
   (f)	Indicate whether the provisions of the agreement are severable; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Stipulate the admission into evidence of testimony and exhibits filed in
   the proceeding by the signing parties; Provided, that in the case of a partial
   settlement, only testimony and exhibits related to the settled matters shall
   be stipulated to for admission into evidence.

   130.11. A full settlement presented in a base rate change application or other
   contested case, which would have an impact on a utility&#8217;s customers,
   competitors, or the public, shall only be accepted after a hearing on whether
   the settlement is in the public interest.

   130.12. At the hearing held pursuant to ยง130.11, non-signatory parties shall
   be provided the opportunity to cross-examine the witness(es) tendered by the
   signatory parties on whether the settlement agreement is in the public
   interest.

   130.13. A Commission decision to adopt a nonunanimous settlement as a
   resolution on the merits shall be based upon substantial evidence upon the
   record.

   130.14. A party who does not sign settlement documents may not defeat or
   challenge a settlement simply by refusing to sign the document.

   130.15. A settlement which fully or partially resolves a proceeding, before
   the Commission, shall have no precedential effect on future proceedings.

   130.16. Given the negotiated nature of a settlement, the Commission shall
   either accept or reject a settlement in its entirety, unless the parties have
   specifically stated that the provisions of the settlement are severable.

   130.17. If a settlement is rejected, the Commission may take various steps,
   including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Allow the parties time to renegotiate a settlement;
   
   
   
   (b)	Propose alternative terms to the parties and allow the parties a
   reasonable time within which to elect to accept such terms or request other
   relief; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Proceed with litigation of the case.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 2984, 3007 (July 3, 1981); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 2340, 2341 (May 12, 1995); and
   by Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 5117, 5122 (July 10, 1992).
