                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEPOSITIONS[COLON] GENERAL PROVISIONS (ยง 15-125)

125.1. The Commission may, either on its own initiative, pursuant to a
   prehearing conference, or upon proper motion of a party to a proceeding, issue
   an order to take a deposition.

   125.2. A motion to take a deposition shall be filed with the Commission no
   less than ten (10) days before the proposed date for taking the deposition,
   unless the Commission shall permit otherwise.

   125.3. The motion shall set forth the reason for the deposition, the place and
   time of taking, the names and addresses of the deponents, and whether the
   deposition is to be based upon written interrogatories or upon oral
   examination.

   125.4. If the deposition is to be based upon oral examination, the motion
   shall contain a statement of the subject-matter concerning which each deponent
   will testify.

   125.5. If the deposition is to be based on written interrogatories, the motion
   shall be accompanied by the interrogatories to be propounded.

   125.6. Copies of all motions to take depositions, and accompanying
   interrogatories, if any, shall be served on all parties.

   125.7. A party served with a motion to take a deposition may object to the
   taking of the deposition by filing with the Commission and serving upon all
   parties within five (5) days after receipt of the motion to take a deposition,
   a notice of the objection stating the reasons therefor.

   125.8. A party served with a motion to take a deposition on written
   interrogatories shall have five (5) days, or any other time as the Commission
   may permit, after receipt of service of that motion, within which to file and
   serve written cross- interrogatories.

   125.9. An application to take a deposition in a foreign country shall be
   entertained when necessary or convenient, and authority to take such
   deposition shall be granted upon such notice and other terms and directions as
   are lawful and appropriate.

   125.10. Depositions shall be filed with the Commission before they are offered
   as evidence. No deposition shall constitute a part of the record in any
   proceeding until received in evidence at a hearing, unless, prior to the final
   submission of the case, the Commission determines otherwise.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 2984, 3003 (July 3, 1981).
