                                  DC REGULATIONS

EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS (ยง 15-108)

108.1. No interested person may, with respect to any case, make (or knowingly
   cause to be made) to any Commissioner, Hearing Agent, or personal assistant to
   the Commissioners, any ex parte communication while the proceeding is pending
   before the Commission.

   108.2. The provisions of ยง108.1 do not apply to any of the following
   communications:
   
   
   
   (a)	Those specifically authorized by law to be made on an ex parte basis;
   
   
   
   (b)	Those related to a matter of procedure; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Those made in the course of another proceeding of the Commission to which
   it primarily relates, and is on the public record.

   108.3. Any employee of the Commission or person may apply to the Office of
   General Counsel for an advisory opinion as to whether any provision of this
   section is applicable to a communication.

   108.4. A proceeding is considered pending before the Commission when it is
   noticed for hearing, or when a communicator who reasonably believes it will be
   noticed for hearing obtains such knowledge (but not before the proceeding is
   docketed).

   108.5. A proceeding ends when the Commission&#8217;s decision becomes final
   for purposes of judicial review.

   108.6. If a proceeding is phased or segmented so that one or more parts of the
   proceeding constitute informal rulemaking and one or more parts constitute
   contested proceedings, the Commission may, by order, provide that each phase
   or segment shall constitute a separate proceeding for purposes of this rule.

   108.7. Any Commissioner, personal assistant to a Commissioner, hearing agent
   or person appointed to advise the Commission, who receives an ex parte
   communication prohibited by this section shall, within forty-eight (48) hours
   after first having reason to believe that the communication is prohibited,
   prepare and deliver to the Secretary a written statement setting forth the
   substance of the communication if it is in oral form, or deliver to the
   Secretary the actual communication if it is in written form.

   108.8. The Secretary shall place any statement or communication in public
   files associated with the proceeding, but separate from the record upon which
   the Commission will rely in reaching its decision. The Secretary shall mail to
   each person on the official service list of the proceeding a copy of any such
   statement or communication.

   108.9. If the Commission determines that a communication was knowingly made
   (or caused to be made) by a party acting in violation of this section, the
   Commission may, to the extent consistent with the interests of justice and the
   policy of the underlying statutes, require the party to show cause why his or
   her claim or interest in the proceeding should not be dismissed, denied, or
   otherwise adversely affected.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 2984, 2990 (July 3, 1981); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 29 DCR 97 (January 1, 1982); and by
   Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 5117, 5118 (July 10, 1992).
