                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRE-HEARING CONFERENCE (ยง 15-121)

121.1. The Commission, or any presiding officer to whom a case has been
   assigned for hearing, shall give notice directing all parties to attend a
   pre-hearing conference.

   121.2. At least five (5) calendar days before the pre-hearing conference, each
   party shall serve and file a statement of proposed issues and order of
   procedure with the Commission.

   121.3. The parties to the proceeding, or their representatives, and
   representatives of the Commission designated by it for the purpose, shall be
   conferees.

   121.4. The purpose of the pre-hearing conference shall be to do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Formulate the issues;
   
   
   
   (b)	Arrange for the exchange of proposed exhibits;
   
   
   
   (c)	Make any necessary amendments to the pleadings;
   
   
   
   (d)	Obtain admissions of fact and of documents which will avoid unnecessary
   proof;
   
   
   
   (e)	Determine the number of witnesses;
   
   
   
   (f)	Set forth any extraordinary rules of procedure for the conduct of the
   hearing(s);
   
   
   
   (g)	Adopt a procedural schedule for the proceedings; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Pursue any other matters as may aid in the disposition of the proceeding.

   121.5. Any agreements reached at the conference by the parties shall be
   promptly reduced to writing by the Commission&#8217;s designee and submitted
   to the Commission for approval.

   121.6. Any participant who fails to attend a pre-hearing conference of which
   the participant had due notice shall, with respect to any matter reasonably
   encompassed in the notice of the prehearing conference, be deemed to have
   waived any objections to any agreement reached, or ruling made thereon at the
   conference.

   121.7. At the conclusion of the pre-hearing conference, the Commission shall
   issue, as soon thereafter as possible, an Order and Report on Prehearing
   Conference, designating the parties, setting forth the issues to be decided in
   the hearing(s), any extraordinary rules or procedure, and the procedural
   schedule of the proceeding.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 2984, 3000 (July 3, 1981).
