                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPEARANCES AND REPRESENTATION (§ 15-110)

110.1. In any proceeding an individual, receiver, trustee, or official may
   appear in his or her own behalf, a member of a partnership may represent the
   partnership, an officer of a corporation may represent the corporation, a
   member or employee or an association or non-profit corporation may represent
   the association or non-profit corporation, and an official of a Federal,
   District or State Commission or other governmental agency may represent that
   Commission or governmental agency.

   110.2. Any individual appearing before or transacting business with the
   Commission in a representative capacity may be required to establish authority
   to act in that capacity.

   110.3. A person may be represented in any proceedings before the Commission by
   an attorney at law admitted to practice before the District of Columbia Court
   of Appeals; or by an attorney admitted to practice before the highest court of
   any state upon the granting by the Commission of a motion for special
   appearance; Provided, that the attorney does not maintain an office within the
   District of Columbia for the practice of law.

   110.4. In any proceeding before the Commission, if a party is represented by
   more than one attorney or person, that party shall, at the time it first
   appears before or files with the Commission, designate which one of those
   attorneys or persons is authorized to receive service on behalf of that party.
   Service to that designated representative shall be considered to be service to
   all representatives of that party as well as to that party.

   110.5. The Commission may disqualify, or deny, temporarily or permanently, the
   privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way, to any individual
   who is found by the Commission, after hearing, either to be lacking in the
   requisite qualifications to represent others or in character or integrity or
   to have engaged in unethical, improper or unprofessional conduct. In
   particular, no person shall willfully mislead the Commission or its Staff by a
   false statement of fact or law.

   110.6. Persons who appear in a representative capacity in any formal
   proceeding 			shall file a written notice of appearance with the Commission
   Secretary on 		the first occasion of appearance.  The notice of appearance
   shall state the 			person’s name, local address, local telephone number,
   e-mail address, and 			for whom the appearance is made.  The written notice
   shall be part of the 			record.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 2984, 2994 (July 3, 1981); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 5117, 5119 (July 10, 1992); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 10631, 10632
   (December 16, 2011).
