                                  DC REGULATIONS

TAXIMETERS (§ 31-602)

602.1 	All licensed taxicabs shall be equipped with a functioning taximeter
   that meets the following requirements and the requirements for a modern
   taximeter system (MTS) pursuant to § 603:
   
   
   
   (a)	The taximeter shall provide for calculation of the following rates and
   charges, as may be amended by the Commission from time to time:
   
   
   
   (1)	Flag drop rate;
   
   
   
   (2)	Distance rate;
   
   
   
   (3)	Luggage charge;
   
   
   
   (4)	Radio dispatch charge;
   
   
   
   (5)	Fuel surcharge;
   
   
   
   (6)	Snow emergency; and
   
   
   
   (7)	Wait time charges.
   
   
   
   (b)	The taximeter shall provide the following data and reports:
   
   
   
   (1)	A printed customer receipt;
   
   
   
   (2)	Shift statistics, including but not limited to paid miles, unpaid miles,
   and number of trips; and
   
   
   
   (3)	End-of-year statistics, including but not limited to paid miles, unpaid
   miles, and number of trips.
   
   
   
   (c)	The taximeter shall meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	Be fully electronic;
   
   
   
   (2)	Have all access points sealed by a taximeter business licensed by the
   Commission;
   
   
   
   (3)	Have casings made of hard impenetrable plastic or metal;
   
   
   
   (4)	Be capable of operating within a temperature range of negative twenty
   degrees Fahrenheit (-20° F) and positive one hundred twenty degrees
   Fahrenheit (+120° F);
   
   
   
   (5)	Be capable of automatically producing a printed receipt for passengers or
   Commission personnel, as described in Subsection 803.1;
   
   
   
   (6)	Be capable of producing a printed receipt within ten (10) seconds;
   
   
   
   (7)	Be capable of producing a printed report for Commission personnel which
   shows total mileage, total paid mileage, total trips, total units, and total
   extras.  All such printed reports must show a minimum of six (6) digits
   exclusive of decimals, for example 009,999.  This function shall be operated
   by a separate button or switch;
   
   
   
   (8)	Have the name and license number of the licensed taximeter shop on the
   sealed surface of all seals.   If an adjustment can be made to any component
   affecting the performance of the printer, then provision shall be made for by
   applying a seal in a manner which requires the seal to be broken before an
   adjustment can be made;
   
   
   
   (9)	Have an auxiliary power source contained in the unit which operates
   independently of the vehicle’s electrical system and operates the memory at
   its full capacity for a minimum of two (2) years;
   
   
   
   (10)	Have a memory which shall be non-erasable;
   
   
   
   (11)	Upon reaching the limits of any display, the unit shall be capable of
   turning over;
   
   
   
   (12)	Have a fully programmable fare structure with low-cost rate change
   capability;
   
   
   
   (13)	For two (2)-piece units, have a printer capable of interfacing with and
   recording information from a fully approved electronic taximeter;
   
   
   
   (14)	For two (2)-piece units, have all connections between the display unit
   and the memory/printer unit permanently sealed and tamper-proof by use of
   approved tubing or electrical conduits.  The display unit must be unable to
   function if disconnected from the memory/printer unit;
   
   
   
   (15)	Be capable of automatically making meter displays inoperable if printer
   paper is not available in the taximeter;
   
   
   
   (16)	Have model and serial numbers appearing on the face of the unit.  For two
   (2)-piece units, model and serial numbers must appear on the display unit and
   the memory/printer unit;
   
   
   
   (17)	Have all operating buttons and/or switches related to passenger functions
   appearing on the face of the unit, properly labeled, and indicating each
   function;
   
   
   
   (18)	Have all extra charges appear separately on the display as well as the
   receipt for passengers and have the extra charge indicator illuminated when in
   operation;
   
   
   
   (19)	Have the fare displayed for a total of fifteen (15) seconds from the time
   the printer begins to print the customer receipt at the completion of the
   ride;
   
   
   
   (20)	Have a clearly visible fare display;
   
   
   
   (21)	Have a receipt dispenser unit which is visible to the passenger;
   
   
   
   (22)	Have sufficient candlepower so that all illuminated indicators are
   visible to the passenger;
   
   
   
   (23)	Be permanently affixed to the vehicle in a location approved by the
   Commission;
   
   
   
   (24)	Have a cruising light that is controlled by engaging the meter; provided,
   however, that the cruising light may be disengaged by a separate toggle switch
   if a taxicab is “Off Duty” and not for hire or is “On Call” and
   responding to a dispatched call or previously arranged engagement, acting in
   compliance with Subsections 605.6, 605.7, 605.8, and 820.3.
   
   
   
   (25)	Calculate and display the authorized metered rate of fare required by
   Section 801 in Chapter 8 of this title;
   
   
   
   (26)	Use switches, wiring, and wire caps in all connections to the taximeter
   harness, cruiser light wires, and pulse wires that meet the specifications of
   the Society of Automotive Engineers, where such specifications are applicable.
    All of the ports and peripheral connections shall be physically secure from
   tampering that could disrupt the functionality or compromise the integrity of
   the taximeter; and
   
   
   
   (27)	Meet the specifications and tolerances published in the National Bureau
   of Standards Handbook 44.
   
   
   
   (d)	Whenever the Office issues an Office Order requiring taxicab owners to
   gather or report information, each taxicab company, association or fleet shall
   be responsible for the gathering or reporting of such information from each
   taxicab operator associated with such company, association or fleet. The
   company, association, or fleet shall be a conduit of that information to the
   Commission without liability for the transmission of such information to the
   Commission.

   602.2. [REPEALED]

   602.3. [REPEALED]

   602.4. Taximeters shall only be installed by taximeter businesses licensed by
   the Commission which meet the requirements in Chapter 13 of these Regulations.

   602.5. No taxicab shall be equipped with more than one taximeter.

   602.6. Each taximeter shall be sealed to avoid tampering and only a licensed
   taximeter business shall perform the sealing:
   
   
   
   (a)	Lead seals shall use a numbered seal press with an official inscription
   issued by the Commission;
   
   
   
   (b)	The taximeter business shall place a certification sticker, issued by the
   Commission on each taximeter that states the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The taximeter&#8217;s serial number;
   
   
   
   (2)	The date it was sealed;
   
   
   
   (3)	The name of the authorized sealer;
   
   
   
   (4)	The sealer&#8217;s signature;
   
   
   
   (5)	The revolutions (constant &#8220;K&#8221;) of the taximeter; and
   
   
   
   (6)	The wheel and tire size at the time of inspection and the recommended tire
   pressure.

   602.7. Each taximeter shall be tested once per year by a taximeter business
   licensed by the Commission. The annual inspection shall not be conducted by a
   taximeter business on taxicabs owned or affiliated with the taximeter business
   conducting the inspection. The annual inspection shall be identical to the
   inspection process identified in Section 1324.1.

   602.8. Each new taximeter unit submitted for approval to the Commission by the
   manufacturer, its licensed representative, or the taximeter business shall be
   subject to a testing period.

   602.9. Drivers shall comply with the following requirements as to the
   condition of the taximeter and cruiser lights:
   
   
   
   (a)	A driver shall not drive a taxicab unless all taximeter seals and cable
   housing seals are in good condition and pressed by the Commission or its
   authorized designee. The serial number of the taximeter must be the same as
   that shown on the rate card assigned to the taxicab;
   
   
   
   (b)	A driver shall not pick up or transport a passenger unless the taxicab has
   a properly functioning taximeter, which shall be equipped with paper for the
   printing of receipts; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	While on duty a driver shall have the cruiser light illuminated when the
   taximeter is not in use, indicating that the taxicab is available for hire,
   except as authorized by Subsection 602.1(c)(24).  When a driver has a
   passenger and the meter is engaged, the cruiser light shall not be
   illuminated, indicating the taxicab is not available for hire.

   602.10. A driver shall not operate a taxicab with a non-functioning taximeter,
   including a taximeter in which the taximeter or the seals affixed to the
   taximeter by a licensed taximeter repair shop have been tampered with, broken,
   or altered in any manner. The operation of a taxicab with a non-functioning
   taximeter or with a broken taximeter seal shall give rise to a rebuttable
   presumption that the driver knew of the non-functioning taximeter, tampering,
   or alteration and operated the taxicab with such knowledge.  The
   specifications of a functioning taximeter are found primarily in Subsection
   602.1.

   602.11. A driver shall not tamper with, repair or attempt to repair, or
   connect any unauthorized device to the taximeter or the taximeter technology
   system, including any seal, cable connection, or electrical wiring of the
   taximeter or taximeter technology system, or make any change in the
   vehicle&#8217;s mechanism or its tires which would affect the operation of the
   taximeter or the taximeter technology system.

   602.12. Except as authorized by Subsection 602.1(c)(24), a driver shall not
   tamper with the cruiser light or any of the interior lights or connections of
   the taxicab except to replace a defective bulb or fuse. The cruiser light of a
   taxicab shall be automatically controlled by the movement of the taximeter
   button or ignition switch so that it is lighted only when the taximeter is in
   an off or &#8220;Vacant&#8221; position and unlighted when the taximeter is in
   a recording or &#8220;Hired&#8221; position. The operation of a taxicab with
   an unauthorized installation or device controlling interior or cruiser
   lighting shall give rise to a rebuttable presumption that the driver knew of
   the unauthorized installation or device and operated the taxicab with such
   knowledge.

   602.13. A driver shall not place tires or wheels of a different size, or
   &#8220;off-size&#8221; tires, on the taxicab without reinspection and
   recalibration of the taximeter. The driver shall not operate a taxicab with
   tires inflated outside the manufacturer&#8217;s recommended level, whether
   under-inflated or over-inflated.  The driver shall not operate a taxicab
   carrying passengers while the vehicle is equipped with a temporary tire, also
   known as a “donut,” as this is operation of an “unsafe vehicle” in
   violation of Section 608.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 3595, 3604 (June 1, 1990); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 3831 (April 11, 2008); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8564, 8565 (July 20, 2012); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 7007 (May 17, 2013); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 12387 (August 30, 2013).
