                                  DC REGULATIONS

MODERN TAXIMETER SYSTEMS (§ 31-603)

603.1. A modern taximeter system (MTS) is a complete technology solution for
   taxicab metering and payment that pairs the equipment of § 603.8 with the
   service and support of § 603.9.  Taxicab companies and independent owners
   shall obtain MTS units from the payment service providers (PSPs) whose MTSs
   have been approved by the Office under Chapter 4 of this title.

   603.2. MTS implementation.  Beginning on September 1, 2013 (“implementation
   date”):
   
   
   
   		(a) 		Each taxicab shall operate only with an MTS unit that allows a
   passenger to make a cash payment or cashless payment, which shall be the
   decision of the passenger;
   
   
   
   		(b)		Each MTS unit shall be obtained from a PSP that has current approval
   for the MTS and is operating in compliance with this section and Chapter 4;
   
   
   
   		(c)		Each MTS unit, including the passenger console and safety feature
   required by § 603.8(n), shall be installed by an authorized MTS installation
   business which certifies that it meets the applicable provisions of this
   title;
   
   
   
   		(d)		Each taxicab company, independent owner, or taxicab operator, may
   receive dispatches and provide digital payment to passengers as provided by §
   603.4; and
   
   
   
   		(e)		The taxicab passenger surcharge shall be collected from the passenger
   and paid by the PSP to the Office for each taxicab trip, regardless of how the
   fare is paid.

   603.3. A list of approved MTSs and authorized MTS installation businesses
   shall be posted on the Commission’s website by the effective date of this
   rulemaking.

   603.4. Dispatch services.  Each taxicab company, independent owner, or
   operator may associate with one or more dispatch services to receive telephone
   or digital dispatches, provided the DDS used is in compliance with Chapter 16
   and all other applicable requirements of this title and other applicable laws.
    Each taxicab company and independent owner may associate with one or more
   digital dispatch services to provide digital payment, provided the digital
   dispatch service is in compliance with Chapters 4, 8, and 16. It shall be the
   responsibility of each taxicab company and independent owner to report to the
   Office any occasion when they have personally observed a PSP or DDS failing or
   refusing to comply with the integration requirements of Chapter 4 for the
   processing of digital payments.

   603.5. Installation, certification, training, and inspection.
   
   
   
   	(a)	Each taxicab company and individual owner shall have an approved MTS unit
   (and each component required by § 603.8 as of the installation date set forth
   therein) installed in each of its vehicles, and certified in a meter
   calibration report as meeting all the applicable requirements of this title
   including integrating with or replacing the vehicle’s taximeter, by the
   implementation date.
   
   
   
   	(b)	Each installation and certification required by § 603.5(a) shall be
   conducted by an authorized MTS installation business, including the
   installation and certification of the passenger console and safety feature
   required by § 603.8(n).
   
   
   
   	(c)	Each taxicab company, individual owner, and operator shall obtain any
   necessary training on the use of the MTS unit by the implementation date.
   
   
   
   	(d)	Each vehicle’s MTS unit shall be tested as part of the periodic vehicle
   inspection required by this title.
   
   
   
   603.6 	All costs associated with obtaining an MTS unit, including installation
   and certification (including those associated with adding the passenger
   console and safety feature required by § 603.8(n)), operation, compliance
   with a provision of this title or other applicable law, compliance with an
   Office order, repair, lease, service and support, maintenance, and upgrade,
   shall be the responsibility of the taxicab company or independent owner, but
   may be allocated by written agreement among the taxicab company or independent
   owner, the PSP that provides it, or any other person.

   603.7. Nothing in this section shall be construed to solicit or create a
   contractual relationship between the District of Columbia and any person.

   603.8. MTS equipment requirements.
   
   
   
   	Each MTS shall consist of a reasonable combination of fixed or mobile
   hardware components, such as a Bluetooth-enabled smartphone, mobile data
   terminal, or tablet, with an attached or integrated payment card reader, and
   printer, and shall:
   
   
   
   	(a)	Operate only in a manner that allows the PSP to meet the service and
   support requirements of § 603.9 and the operating requirements of Chapter 4;
   
   
   
   	(b)	Allow a passenger to select the payment method, including a cash payment
   or a cashless payment (among the forms of cashless payment the PSP is approved
   to provide under Chapter 4);
   
   
   
   	(c)	Display text messages from the Office and permit selected responses when
   the vehicle is stationary;
   
   
   
   	(d)	Not allow a person to be charged any amount through the MTS unit other
   than a taximeter fare;
   
   	(e)	Use a wireless 3G or better cellular data connection;
   
   	(f)	Use a high-sensitivity global positioning satellite receiver that
   provides failover geo-coding from mobile wireless networks;
   
   	(g)	Record all trips made by the vehicle;
   
   	(h)	Not store, or allow the operator to have access to, the passenger’s
   payment card information after payment authorization has been issued;
   
   	(i)	Have only one (1) physical access-point if wired to the taximeter, and
   allow no more than the number of Bluetooth connections necessary to meet MTS
   requirements, if connected wirelessly to the taximeter;
   
   	(j)	Prevent the MTS unit from being used when any of its components are not
   operating as required by a provision of this title;
   
   	(k)	Provide the passenger with a receipt that complies with § 803;
   
   	(l)	Not use, incorporate, or connect to hardware available for personal use
   by the owner or operator of the vehicle unless the PSP demonstrates to the
   satisfaction of the Office that such use, incorporation, or connection does
   not pose a risk to passenger safety or privacy, or information security;
   
   	(m)	Use, incorporate, or connect only to technology that meets Open Web
   Application Security Project (“OWASP”) security guidelines, that complies
   with the current standards of the PCI Security Standards Council
   (“Council”) for payment card data security, if such standards exist, and,
   if not, then with the current guidelines of the Council for payment card data
   security, and, that, for direct debit transactions, complies with the rules
   and guidelines of the National Automated Clearing House Association; and
   
   	(n)	Not later than December 1, 2013, the MTS shall include a passenger
   console that shall:
   
   		(1)	Have a display of not less than seven (7) inches and not more than
   twelve (12) inches in size, and is securely connected to the front seat or to
   a mount at shoulder height midway between the sides of the vehicle, or in such
   similar location in the passenger area as may be required for passenger
   safety;
   
   
   
   		(2)	Comply with Section 508, and with the electronic and information
   technology (“EIT”) requirements of Section 504, of the Rehabilitation Act
   of 1973, and allows a visually impaired or mobility disabled passenger to
   independently complete the fare payment process without giving a payment card
   to the operator, through such mechanisms as braille print, audio prompting,
   input controls with tactile feedback for each function, numeric keys, and
   contrasting backgrounds;
   
   
   
   		(3)	Not later than June 1, 2014, include a safety feature that shall:
   
   
   
   			(A)	Be triggered by a physical button or prominent screen icon;
   
   
   
   			(B)	Be available at all times when a passenger is inside the vehicle;
   
   
   
   			(C)	Send a real-time notification to the Office of Unified Communications
   that a taxicab passenger is reporting a threat to his or her safety;
   
   
   
   			(C)	Be operated discreetly and without interference by the operator; and
   
   
   
   			(D)	Incorporate features to prevent accidental or intentional misuse.
   
   
   
   		(4) 	Display the following information in the following manner:
   
   
   
   			(A)	When the MTS is engaged (at flag drop), the passenger console shall
   display for a period of not less than twenty (20) seconds or such other period
   as directed by the Office, a full-size image of the operator’s DCTC
   identification card (Face ID), accompanied by a message as directed by the
   Office;
   
   
   
   			(B)	After the period required by § 603.8(n)(4)(A), the image of the
   identification card shall be minimized to an icon in the upper left-hand
   corner of the screen with the label “TOUCH HERE FOR DRIVER’S I.D.”,
   which the passenger shall be able to maximize at any time prior to exiting the
   vehicle;
   
   
   
   			(C)	After the period required by § 603.8(n)(4)(A), the following
   audio-visual content shall be displayed in such sequence as the PSP may
   determine, provided, however, that the passenger shall be able to turn off the
   sound at any time prior to exiting the vehicle:
   
   
   
   				(i)	A public service announcement as provided and directed by the Office;
   
   
   
   				(ii)	The navigational path of the vehicle;
   
   
   
   				(iii)	Advertising, if agreed to by the vehicle owner and the PSP, from
   which not less than thirty (30) percent of the net revenue shall be paid to
   the vehicle owner; and
   
   
   
   			(D)	At the conclusion of the trip, an itemization of the rates and charges
   under § 801.7 shall be displayed and the passenger may be asked for a
   gratuity, after which the fare shall be displayed, and the passenger shall be
   given an opportunity to choose a cash or cashless payment, and to process such
   payment as required by this subsection.

   603.9. MTS service and support requirements.
   
   
   
   		Each MTS shall function with the service and support of the PSP, which shall
   at all times operate in compliance with Chapter 4, and shall maintain a data
   connection to each MTS unit that shall:
   
   
   
   		(a)	Validate the status of the operator’s DCTC license (Face Card) in
   real-time by connecting to the Taxicab Commission Information System (TCIS) to
   ensure the license is not revoked or suspended, and that the operator is in
   compliance with the insurance requirements of Chapter 9;
   
   
   
   		(b)	Validate the status of the taximeter component of the MTS unit (such as
   hired, vacant, or time-off) in real-time to ensure that it cannot be used
   until the prior trip and the payment process connected with it have ended;
   
   
   
   		(c)	Transmit to the TCIS every twenty-four (24) hours via a single data feed
   consistent in structure across all PSPs, in a manner as established by the
   Office, the following data:
   
   
   
   		(1)	The date;
   
   
   
   		(2)	The operator identification (Face Card) number and PVIN, reported in a
   unique and anonymous manner allowing the PSP to maintain a retrievable record
   of the operator and vehicle;
   
   
   
   		(3)	The name of the taxicab company, association, or fleet if applicable;
   
   
   
   		(4)	The PSP-assigned tour ID number and time at beginning of tour of duty;
   
   
   
   		(5)	The time and mileage of each trip;
   
   
   
   		(6)	The time of pickup and drop-off of each trip;
   
   
   
   		(7)	The geospatially-recorded place of pickup and drop-off of each trip
   which may be generalized to census tract level;
   
   
   
   		(8)	The number of passengers;
   
   
   
   		(9)	The unique trip number assigned by the PSP;
   
   
   
   		(10)	The taximeter fare and an itemization of the rates and charges pursuant
   to § 801;
   
   
   
   		(11)	The form of payment (cash payment, cashless payment, voucher, or
   digital payment), and, if a digital payment, the name of the DDS;
   
   
   
   		(12)	The time at the end of each tour of duty;
   
   
   
   	(d)	Provide the Office with the information necessary to insure that the PSP
   pays and the Office receives the taxicab passenger surcharge for each taxicab
   trip, regardless of how the fare is paid; and
   
   
   
   	(e)	Allow the PSP to comply with the integration and other requirements for
   processing digital payments pursuant to § 408.16.

   603.10. Prohibitions under this section.
   
   
   
   (a)	No operator shall provide taxicab service without an approved MTS unit
   installed and certified by an authorized MTS installation business.
   
   (b)	No operator shall operate a vehicle if the MTS unit is not functioning
   properly.
   
   
   
   (c)	No operator shall provide service unless both the operator and the vehicle
   are on the PSP’s inventory when the trip is booked by dispatch or street
   hail.
   
   
   
   (d)	No operator shall limit service or refuse to provide service based on the
   passenger’s choice of payment method.
   
   
   
   (e)	No operator shall access or attempt to access a passenger’s payment card
   information after the payment has been processed.
   
   
   
   (f)		No operator shall participate in a transaction involving taxicab service
   in the District where the fare, rates, charges, or payment does not comply
   with the applicable provisions of this title, including this chapter, and §§
   603 and 801.
   
   
   
   (g)	No operator shall associate with a PSP if such operator is, at that time,
   associated with a taxicab company that provides payment card processing for
   its associated operators, and has applied for or received approval to act as a
   PSP under Chapter 4.
   
   
   
   (h)	No taxicab shall be equipped with more than one (1) MTS unit.
   
   
   
   (i)	No taxicab company or independent owner shall knowingly permit its vehicle
   to be operated in violation of this section or Chapter 4.
   
   
   
   (j)	No owner or operator shall alter or tamper with a component of an MTS unit
   or make any change in the vehicle that prevents the MTS unit from operating in
   compliance with this title.
   
   
   
   (k)	No operator shall operate a taxicab in which the MTS has been tampered
   with, broken, or altered.  The operation of a taxicab with a tampered, broken,
   or altered MTS shall give rise to a rebuttable presumption that the operator
   knew of the tampering, breaking, or alteration.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 7007 (May 17, 2013); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10994 (July 26, 2013).
