                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 21-5499)

When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed:



Backflow &#8211; a reversal of the flow of water caused by a loss in water
pressure. This reversal may allow other liquids, gases or mixtures of substances
to enter into the potable water supply.



Backflow Preventer &#8211; a device approved by the General Manager or his or
her designee for a water supply pipe to prevent the backflow of water into the
water supply system from the connections on its outlet end.



Contaminant &#8211; any substance in the Potable Water Supply that creates a
hazard to human health when its level exceeds the standards established under
the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. ยง 300(f) et. seq..



Cross-connection &#8211; an actual or potential link between any part of a
potable water system and any other environment of liquid, gas, solid or mixture
of substances in a manner that, under any circumstances, would allow such
substances to enter the potable water system.



General Manager &#8211; the chief administrative officer of the District of
Columbia Water and Sewer Authority or his or her designee.



Interior Plumbing &#8211; part of plumbing system that includes the water supply
to the building and distribution pipes within the building or premises; plumbing
fixtures and traps; soil, waste and vent pipes; and sanitary and storm sewers
and building drains; including their respective connections, devices and
appurtenances within a building or premises.



Owner &#8211; any individual, corporation, association or partnership listed as
the legal titleholder of record or his or her agent, including where
appropriate, agents and agencies of the government of the United States of
America.



Pollutant &#8211; any substance in the water supply that renders it to be
unsuitable or unacceptable for drinking.



Potable Water Supply &#8211; water distributed by WASA that meets the
requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. ยง 300(f) et seq.) and is
otherwise suitable and acceptable for drinking.



Private Water System &#8211; the water service pipe, water distribution pipes,
any necessary connecting pipes, fittings, control valves, hydrants, and all
appurtenances in or adjacent to the building(s) or premises.



WASA &#8211; the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority or its lawful
agent, representative, successor in interest, assign or designee.



	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 1743 (February 23, 2001).
