                                  DC REGULATIONS

DOMICILE &#8211; DETERMINING THE PERSON THROUGH WHOM DOMICILE IS ESTABLISHED (§
29-7002)

7002.1. The domicile of an applicant who is an unemancipated minor is the
   domicile of the minor’s parents or legal guardian.

   7002.2. If the parents of an unemancipated minor are legally separated by
   court order or divorced, the domicile of the unemancipated minor may be any
   one of the following that places the minor’s domicile in the District of
   Columbia:
   
   
   
   (a)	The domicile of the parent with whom the minor resides more than 50% of
   the time;
   
   
   
   (b)	The domicile of the parent who claims the minor as a dependent for federal
   and District of Columbia income tax purposes;
   
   
   
   (c)	If neither parent claims the minor as a dependent for federal and District
   of Columbia income tax purposes, the domicile of theparent who provides
   substantial financial support; or
   
   
   
   (d)	If the parents have joint custody of the minor by court order, the
   domicile of the minor may be the domicile of either parent.

   7002.3. If the parents have different domiciles, but have not been divorced or
   legally separated by court order, the unemancipated minor may claim the
   domicile of the parent, if any, who is domiciled in the District of Columbia.

   7002.4. An applicant 18 years of age or older is presumed to have the domicile
   of the parent or legal guardian listing the applicant as a dependent in the
   State income tax return of the parent or legal guardian or providing
   substantial financial support to the applicant. The applicant may seek to
   rebut this presumption by showing, by a preponderance of the evidence, a
   domicile independent of such parent or legal guardian regardless of financial
   dependency.

   7002.5. The domicile of an independent applicant or an emancipated minor is
   determined by considering whether the independent applicant or emancipated
   minor has established the District of Columbia as his or her domicile.

   7002.6. The domicile of an applicant is the District of Columbia where the
   applicant is under the jurisdiction of the Superior Court of the District of
   Columbia pursuant to Chapter 23 of Title 16 of the District of Columbia Code
   or where a written statement of relinquishment of parental rights is filed in
   the Superior Court of the District of Columbia pursuant to D.C. Code, 2001 Ed.
   §4-1406.

   7002.7. For situations other than those described above in this section, which
   involve unusual or special circumstances (e.g., an unemancipated minor has
   been abandoned by his or her parents and another person exercises parental
   responsibilities on behalf of the applicant), the Grant Program Office may
   determine on a case-by-case basis the person through whom domicile may be
   established based on the particular facts and any relevant legal requirements
   regarding the establishment of domicile.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 5013, 5015 (June 1, 2001).
