                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTITUTIONAL PARTICIPATION &#8211; DISBURSEMENT AND RECOVERY
OF FUNDS (§ 29-7011)

7011.1. The institution shall disburse the grant funds to the student’s
   individual account no later than 30 calendar days after receipt of the funds
   from the Mayor. For the purposes of this section, a disbursement of grant
   funds occurs on the date the institution credits the student’s individual
   account at the institution.

   7011.2. The institution shall disburse the funds on a payment period basis.

   7011.3. The institution shall notify the student of the date and the amount of
   the disbursement of grant funds.

   7011.4. The institution may make a late disbursement to the student’s
   account for a student who becomes ineligible for the grant when:
   
   
   
   (a)	The student became ineligible for the grant solely because the student is
   no longer enrolled at the institution for the award year;
   
   
   
   (b)	The institution did not credit the student’s account before the student
   became ineligible for the grant; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Before the student became ineligible for the grant, the institution
   received the LOE from the student or the Mayor or was informed of the
   student’s eligible for the grant by the Mayor’s office for the D.C.
   Tuition Assistance Grant Program.

   7011.5. If the student qualifies for a late disbursement under §7011.4; the
   institution may use the funds only to pay for the tuition and fees that the
   institution determines the student incurred for the period in which the
   student was enrolled and eligible.

   7011.6. The institution shall make the late disbursement under §7011.4 no
   later than 90 days after the date that the student becomes ineligible for the
   grant.

   7011.7. If, after disbursing the grant funds to the student’s account, the
   student has a credit balance for tuition and fees because the student/parent
   made a cash payment to cover tuition and fees, the institution shall pay the
   resulting credit balance to the student or parent, as appropriate, no later
   than 30 calendar days after the credit balance occurred for that payment
   period, unless the student/parent has authorized the institution in writing to
   hold the credit balance to cover future charges.

   7011.8. If an institution or the Mayor’s office determines, as a result of
   their ongoing reconciliation process, that the institution received more award
   money on behalf of the student than the student was eligible to receive, the
   institution shall eliminate the overpayment by:
   
   
   
   (a)	Adjusting subsequent award payments in the award year in which the
   overpayment occurred; or
   
   
   
   (b)	If the institution cannot correct the overpayment under paragraph (a) of
   this subsection, returning the excess funds to the Mayor within 30 days of the
   institution’s or the Mayor’s determination that there has been an
   overpayment.

   7011.9. When a recipient of the grant withdraws from an institution during a
   payment period or period of enrollment in which the recipient began
   attendance, the institution shall apply its institutional refund policy to
   determine the amount of the grant to be returned to the D.C. Tuition
   Assistance Grant Program.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 5013, 5028 (June 1, 2001).
