                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTITUTIONAL PARTICIPATION &#8211; AUDITS AND RECORDS ACCESS
AND RETENTION (§ 29-7012)

7012.1. The institution shall comply with the applicable audit requirements
   contained in Office of Management and Budget Circular A-133, “Audits of
   States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations.”

   7012.2. An institution shall establish and maintain, on a current basis, any
   program records that document its eligibility to participate in the College
   Access Act, its administration of the College Access Act in accordance with
   all applicable requirements, and its disbursement and delivery of program
   funds under the College Access Act.

   7012.3. An institution shall account for the receipt and expenditure of funds
   under the Act in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
   shall establish and maintain on a current basis:
   
   
   
   (a)	Financial records that reflect each program transaction; and
   
   
   
   (b)	General ledger control accounts and related subsidiary accounts that
   identify each program transaction and separates those transactions from all
   other institutional financial activity.

   7012.4. The records that an institution shall maintain in order to comply with
   the provisions of this section include but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	A copy of the payment roster sent to the institution;
   
   
   
   (b)	The amount of the student’s grant for the award year, the payment
   period(s), the calculation used to determine the amount of the grant, and the
   date and amount of each grant disbursement;
   
   
   
   (c)	The amount, date, and basis of the institution’s calculation of any
   refund or overpayment due on behalf of the student;
   
   
   
   (d)	The date of payment of any refund or overpayment to the District;
   
   
   
   (e)	Reports and forms used by the institution in its participation in the
   program and any records needed to verify data that appears in these reports
   and forms,
   
   
   
   (f)	A copy of any written agreements between the institution and another
   eligible institution that impact a student’s participation in the program;
   and
   
   
   
   (g)	On an award year basis (at the end of the award year), the number of
   eligible District of Columbia residents receiving the grant and that obtain a
   recognized educational credential.

   7012.5. An institution shall maintain required records in a systematically
   organized manner.

   7012.6. An institution shall make its records available for review by the
   Mayor.

   7012.7. An institution may keep required records in hard copy or in microform,
   computer file, optical disk, CD-ROM, or other media format, provided the
   record information is retrievable in a coherent hard copy format or in other
   formats acceptable to the Mayor.

   7012.8. An institution shall keep records relating to its administration of
   the program for three years after the end of the award year for which the
   grant was awarded.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 5013, 5029 (June 1, 2001).
