                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 29-7099)

7099.1. For purposes of this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall
   have the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Academic year &#8211; has the same meaning as set forth in 34 C.F.R. §668.2
   (1999), as amended from time to time.
   
   
   
   Annual award &#8211; the maximum amount of grant funds a student may receive
   during a full academic year for a given enrollment status and includes the
   cost of tuition and fees.
   
   
   
   Award year &#8211; the period beginning July 1 and ending June 30 of the
   following year.
   
   
   
   Cost of Attendance &#8211; the cost of the student’s education expenses
   including, but not limited to, tuition, fees, books, supplies and student
   living expenses while he or she is attending college. If the student does not
   file a FAFSA, COA is assumed to be the average cost of attendance for
   undergraduate students as determined by the institution.
   
   
   
   Emancipated minor &#8211; a person under the age of 18 whose parent(s) or
   legal guardian have surrendered the right to his or her care, custody, and
   earnings and who no longer claim him or her as a dependent for tax purposes.
   
   
   
   Fees &#8211; the mandatory charges imposed on all undergraduate students as a
   condition of enrollment toward a degree or certificate. It does not include
   particular charges that may vary by course or student, such as course-specific
   lab fees, studio fees or parking fees or fines, or room and board.
   
   
   
   Grant &#8211; unless otherwise stated, the funds provided by the D.C. Tuition
   Assistance Grant Program.
   
   
   
   Incarcerated &#8211; the applicant is serving a criminal sentence in a
   Federal, State, or local penitentiary, prison, jail, reformatory, work farm,
   or other similar correctional institution. An applicant is not considered
   incarcerated if the applicant is in a halfway house or home detention or is
   sentenced to serve only weekends.
   
   
   
   Independent applicant &#8211; an applicant 18 years of age or older whose
   parents or legal guardian have surrendered the right to his or her care,
   custody, and earnings, do not claim the student as a dependent on federal or
   state income tax returns, and have ceased to provide the applicant with
   substantial financial support. This definition is not the same as the Title IV
   definition for independent applicant.
   
   
   
   Institution of higher education &#8211; an educational institution that:
   
   
   
   (a)
   
   
   
   (1)	Admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation
   from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of
   such a certificate;
   
   
   
   (2)	Is legally authorized within a State to provide a program of education
   beyond secondary education;
   
   
   
   (3)	Provides an educational program for which the institution awards a
   bachelor’s degree or provides not less than a 2-year program that is
   acceptable for full credit toward such a degree;
   
   
   
   (4)	Is a public or private nonprofit institution; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or
   association, or if not so accredited, is an institution that has been granted
   preaccreditation status by such an agency or association that has been
   recognized by the Secretary for the granting of preaccreditation status, and
   the Secretary has determined that there is satisfactory assurance that the
   institution will meet the accreditation standards of such an agency or
   association within reasonable time.
   
   
   
   (b)	The term “institution of higher education” also includes:
   
   
   
   (1)	Any school that provides not less than a one-year program of training to
   prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation and that
   meets the provisions of paragraphs (1), (2), (4), and (5) of this subsection;
   and
   
   
   
   (2)	A public or nonprofit private educational institution in any State that,
   in lieu of the requirement in subsection (a)(1), admits as regular students
   persons who are beyond the age of compulsory school attendance in the State in
   which the institution is located.
   
   
   
   Legal guardian &#8211; a person who is appointed by court order and who is
   charged with the care, custody, and responsibility of a person under the age
   of 18 years.
   
   
   
   Mayor &#8211; the Mayor of the District of Columbia or his or her designee.
   
   
   
   Parent &#8211; the applicant’s natural or adoptive mother or father.
   
   
   
   Payment Period &#8211; has the same meaning as set forth in 34 C.F.R. §668.4,
   as amended from time to time.
   
   
   
   Period of Enrollment &#8211; the academic period established by the
   institution for which institutional charges are generally assessed (i.e.,
   length of the student’s program or academic year).
   
   
   
   Private eligible institution &#8211; an institution that:
   
   
   
   (a)
   
   
   
   (1)	Is a private, nonprofit, associate or baccalaureate degree granting,
   institution of higher education, as defined in §101(a) of the Higher
   Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)), the main campus of
   which is located:
   
   
   
   (A)	In the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (B)	In the city of Alexandria, Falls Church, or Fairfax, or the county of
   Arlington or Fairfax, in the Commonwealth of Virginia, or a political
   subdivision of the Commonwealth of Virginia located within any such county; or
   
   
   
   (C)	In the county of Montgomery or Prince George’s in the State of Maryland,
   or a political subdivision of the State of Maryland located within any such
   county;
   
   
   
   (2)	Is eligible to participate in the student financial assistance programs
   under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C.
   §§1070 et seq.); and
   
   
   
   (3)	Enters into an agreement with the Mayor containing such conditions as the
   Mayor may specify, including a requirement that the institution use the funds
   made available under this section to supplement and not supplant assistance
   that otherwise would be provided to eligible students from the District of
   Columbia; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Is a private historically Black college or university (for purposes of
   this subparagraph such term shall have the meaning given the term “part B
   institution” in §322(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (20
   U.S.C. §1061(2)), the main campus of which is located in the State of
   Maryland or the Commonwealth of Virginia.
   
   
   
   Public eligible institution &#8211; an institution that:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is a public institution of higher education located:
   
   
   
   (1)	In the State of Maryland or the Commonwealth of Virginia; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Outside the States of Maryland or the Commonwealth of Virginia, but only
   if the Mayor:
   
   
   
   (A)	Determines that a significant number of eligible students are experiencing
   difficulty in gaining admission to any public institution of higher education
   located in the States of Maryland or the Commonwealth of Virginia because of
   any preference afforded in-State residents by the institution;
   
   
   
   (B)	Consults with the Committee on Government Reform of the House of
   Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the
   Secretary of the U.S. Department of Education regarding expanding the public
   school program under the College Access Act to include such institutions
   located outside of the State of Maryland or the Commonwealth of Virginia; and
   
   
   
   (C)	takes into consideration the projected cost of the expansion and the
   potential effect of the expansion on the amount of individual tuition and fee
   payments made under §3 of the College Access Act in succeeding years;
   
   
   
   (b)	Is eligible to participate in the student financial assistance programs
   under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C.
   §§1070 et seq.); and
   
   
   
   (c)	Enters into an agreement with the Mayor containing such conditions as the
   Mayor may specify, including a requirement that the institution use the funds
   made available under the College Access Act to supplement and not supplant
   assistance that otherwise would be provided to eligible students from the
   District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Recognized equivalent of a secondary school diploma -
   
   
   
   (a)	A General Education Development Certificate (GED);
   
   
   
   (b)	A State certificate received by a student after the student has passed a
   State-authorized examination that the State recognizes as the equivalent of a
   secondary school diploma;
   
   
   
   (c)	An academic transcript of student who has successfully completed at least
   a two-year program that is acceptable for full credit towards a bachelor’s
   degree; or
   
   
   
   (d)	For a person who is seeking enrollment in an educational program that
   leads to at least an associate degree or its equivalent and who has not
   completed secondary school but who excelled academically in secondary school,
   documentation that the student excelled academically in secondary school and
   has met the formalized, written policies of the institution for admitting such
   students.
   
   
   
   Secretary &#8211; the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Education.
   
   
   
   State &#8211; all states within the United States of America, the District of
   Columbia, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, and the Northern Mariana
   Islands.
   
   
   
   Substantial financial support &#8211; the applicant receives over half of his
   or her financial support from the applicant’s parent(s) or legal guardian.
   
   
   
   Third-party servicer &#8211; has the same meaning as set forth in 34 C.F.R.
   §668.2 (1999), as may be amended from time to time.
   
   
   
   Title IV &#8211; Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
   §§1070 et seq.)
   
   
   
   Tuition &#8211; the charges imposed to attend an eligible institution of
   higher education as a student.
   
   
   
   Unemancipated minor &#8211; a person under the age of 18 who is under the
   legal control of and is financially supported by either of his or her parents
   or legal guardian.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 5013, 5031 (June 1, 2001).
