                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTITUTIONAL PARTICIPATION &#8211; CASH MANAGEMENT AND
ACCOUNTING (§ 29-7010)

7010.1. Each payment period, the Mayor shall provide the institution a roster
   of eligible students who have expressed an interest in attending the
   institution.

   7010.2. Each payment period, the institution shall submit to the Mayor a
   roster of eligible students for payment:
   
   
   
   (a)	The roster shall contain the institution’s Tax Information Number (TIN)
   and the Dun and Bradstreet Number (DUN);
   
   
   
   (b)	The roster shall also contain the social security number, name, and
   permanent address of each eligible student enrolled at the institution, his or
   her enrollment status, the amount of tuition specific aid (grant money,
   scholarship, tuition or fee waivers, or tuition remission) the student
   received, the amount of tuition and fees charged the student for the payment
   period, the amount of tuition and fees that would be charged to an in-State
   student (if a public institution) for that payment period; the award amount
   that should be paid to the institution on behalf of the student for that
   payment period;

   7010.3. A private institution shall determine the amount to request for each
   payment period by dividing the total amount of the annual award by the number
   of payment periods the institution expects the student will attend in that
   award year.

   7010.4. The institution shall submit the roster to the Mayor after the
   institution’s drop/add period in order to account for the most accurate
   information with respect to the student’s enrollment status.

   7010.5. If the student registers for an additional course after the
   institution has submitted its roster to the Mayor for payment, the institution
   may submit a supplemental roster for payment, except that the amount of
   payment requested may not result in the institution receiving on behalf of the
   student more money than is authorized under the College Access Act and this
   Chapter for the award year.

   7010.6. Upon receipt of the institutional roster, the Mayor shall review the
   information on the roster to determine that each student listed as eligible
   for the grant has filed an application for the grant and is eligible to
   receive the grant.

   7010.7. If the Mayor determines that a student on the roster has not submitted
   the appropriate documents and/or is not eligible for a grant, the Mayor shall
   notify the institution.

   7010.8. The Mayor shall determine the aggregate amount of funds to be paid to
   the institution on behalf of all eligible students attending the institution.

   7010.9. The Mayor shall transmit funds to the institution’s account by use
   of the Automated Clearing House/Electronic Funds Transfer (ACH/EFT) or check
   within 30 days of receipt of the roster for payment of funds from the
   institution.

   7010.10. The Mayor shall provide to the institution a roster reflecting the
   names, social security numbers, and amounts of payment for each student
   transmitted to the institution’s account.

   7010.11. The Mayor may require the institution to maintain the tuition
   assistance program funds in a separate bank or investment account that
   contains no other funds if the Mayor determines that the institution failed to
   comply with:
   
   
   
   (a)	The requirements of this section;
   
   
   
   (b)	The recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §7012.2 through 7012.8;
   or
   
   
   
   (c)	Any other requirements of this Chapter.

   7010.12. The institution shall maintain accounting and internal control
   systems that identify the cash balance of the tuition assistance funds that
   are included in the institution’s bank or investment account as readily as
   if those program funds were maintained in a separate account.

   7010.13. The institution shall maintain its financial records in accordance
   with the requirements contained in §7012.2 through 7012.8.

   7010.14. The institution shall exercise the level of care and diligence
   required of a fiduciary with regard to administering tuition assistance
   program funds.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 5013, 5026 (June 1, 2001).
