                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTITUTIONAL PARTICIPATION &#8211; GRANT PAYMENT WHEN STUDENT
ATTENDS MORE THAN ONE INSTITUTION (§ 29-7009)

7009.1. During any award year, a student who is enrolled at least half-time in
   a program leading to a recognized educational credential at an eligible
   institution (“first institution”) may receive the grant for courses taken
   at a second institution (eligible or non-eligible institution) if:
   
   
   
   (a)	The student remains enrolled as a regular student at the first eligible
   institution during his or her study at the second institution;
   
   
   
   (b)	The courses taken at the second institution apply toward the recognized
   educational credential at the first eligible institution; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The first eligible institution and the second institution have a written
   agreement that provides for the first eligible institution to determine the
   grant amount for the tuition and fees at both institutions and request payment
   on behalf of the student.

   7009.2. The eligible institution that requests the grant payment on behalf of
   the student in accordance with the agreement entered into under §7009.1(c)
   shall take into account all courses taken by the student at each institution
   participating in the agreement and which apply to the recognized educational
   credential when determining the student’s enrollment status and amount of
   grant, and maintain all records regarding the student’s eligibility for and
   receipt of the grant.

   7009.3. If a student who receives a grant at one eligible institution
   subsequently transfers to a second eligible institution in the award year, the
   student may receive tuition assistance at the second institution only if the
   second institution complies with the requirements contained in §7007.

   7009.4. The second institution may receive a grant on behalf of the student
   under §7009.3 only for that portion of the award year in which the student is
   enrolled at that institution.

   7009.5. The second institution shall request payment for the student in
   accordance with §7010 of this chapter.

   7009.6. The Mayor shall be responsible for calculating and/or tracking a
   student’s maximum annual and lifetime award amounts and adjusting them, as
   appropriate, to address transfers between types of schools (public to private
   or private to public).

   7009.7. Each time a student transfers from one type of eligible institution to
   another type of eligible institution (public to private nonprofit or private
   nonprofit to public) the Mayor’s office will adjust the amount of the total
   lifetime award received to date to reflect the amount the student would have
   received if all awards had been received at the second type of institution.
   The new total lifetime award to date will be calculated by:
   
   
   
   (a)	Dividing the total grant amount the student has received at the eligible
   institution from which the student is transferring by the maximum lifetime
   amount of grant award the student could receive while attending that type of
   institution (public &#8211; $50,000 or private non-profit &#8211; $12,500);
   and
   
   
   
   (b)	Multiplying the percentage obtained under (a) above by the lifetime
   maximum at the type of institution to which the student is transferring to
   determine the student’s new total award received to date.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 5013, 5025 (June 1, 2001).
