                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTITUTIONAL PARTICIPATION &#8211; PROGRAM PARTICIPATION
AGREEMENT (§ 29-7006)

7006.1. This section and §§7007 through 7012 establish the standards and
   requirements with which an eligible institution shall comply in order to
   participate in the D.C. Tuition Assistance Grant Program.

   7006.2. A public or private eligible institution may participate in the
   program only if the institution enters into a written program participation
   agreement (“PPA”) approved by the Mayor. The PPA shall require the
   institution to comply with the provisions of this Chapter and any additional
   conditions specified in the PPA.

   7006.3. The PPA applies to each location of the institution that meets the
   applicable requirements of this Chapter unless otherwise specified by the
   Mayor.

   7006.4. By entering into a PPA, the institution agrees that:
   
   
   
   (a)	It shall comply with all statutory provisions of, or applicable to, the
   D.C. Tuition Assistance Grant Program, all applicable regulatory provisions
   prescribed under that statutory authority, and all provisions of the PPA;
   
   
   
   (b)	It shall use any funds it receives under the College Access Act and any
   interest or other earnings thereon, solely for the purpose specified and in
   accordance with the College Access Act;
   
   
   
   (c)	It shall not request from or charge any student a fee for processing or
   handling any application, form, or data required to determine a student’s
   eligibility for, and amount of, program assistance;
   
   
   
   (d)	It shall establish and maintain such administrative and fiscal procedures
   and records as may be necessary to ensure proper and efficient administration
   of funds received from the Mayor under the College Access Act, together with
   assurances that the institution shall provide to the Mayor, upon request and
   in a timely manner, information relating to the administration of the funds;
   
   
   
   (e)	It shall submit reports to the Mayor at such time and containing such
   information as the Mayor may reasonably require to carry out the purpose of
   the College Access Act. Normally, requests for such information and reports
   shall be limited to no more than once annually;
   
   
   
   (f)	The Mayor, the Secretary, and State agencies that legally authorize
   institutions to provide postsecondary education, have the authority to share
   with each other any information pertaining to the institution’s eligibility
   for or participation in the College Access Act or any information on fraud and
   abuse;
   
   
   
   (g)	It shall not impose any penalty, including, but not limited to, the
   assessment of late fees, the denial of access to classes, libraries, or other
   institutional facilities, or the requirement the student borrow additional
   funds for which interest or other charges are assessed, on any student because
   of the student’s inability to meet his or her financial obligations to the
   institution as a result of the delayed disbursement of the funds under the
   College Access Act due to statutory and regulatory requirements of or
   applicable to the College Access Act or delays attributable to the
   institution;
   
   
   
   (h)	It shall comply with the institution’s tuition refund policy if the
   student is entitled to a refund and return the funds to the D.C. Tuition
   Assistance Grant Program;
   
   
   
   (i)	It shall be liable for all funds improperly administered by the
   institution under the College Access Act, this Chapter or the PPA, including
   any funds administered by its third-party servicer; and
   
   
   
   (j)	It shall have information about the program, including the application,
   available in paper or electronic format for interested parties.

   7006.5. The PPA shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Become effective on the date that the Mayor signs the agreement;
   
   
   
   (b)	Supersede any prior PPA between the Mayor and the institution; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Automatically terminate if the institution is no longer certified as an
   eligible institution under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965.

   7006.6. The institution may terminate the PPA by providing a written notice of
   termination to the Mayor. The termination may not become effective until the
   end of the award year in which the notice is provided to the Mayor.

   7006.7. The Mayor may propose to terminate the PPA for cause by providing a
   notice of proposed termination to the institution. For the purposes of this
   subsection, “cause” means the failure of the institution or its
   third-party servicer to comply with any of the requirements of the College
   Access Act, this Chapter, and/or the PPA.

   7006.8. The institution may respond in writing to the proposed notice provided
   under §7006.7 within ten business days after receiving the proposed notice.

   7006.9. After consideration of any written response submitted by the
   institution, the Mayor shall determine whether to issue a final notice of
   termination of the PPA and the effective date of the termination. If the Mayor
   issues a final notice of termination, this determination is final and shall
   not be subject to further administrative review.

   7006.10. If the institution’s PPA is terminated under either §7006.5(c),
   7006.6 or 7006.9, the institution shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit to the Mayor within 45 days after the effective date of the
   termination of the PPA a letter of engagement for an independent audit of all
   funds that the institution received under the D.C. Tuition Assistance Grant
   Program, the report of which shall be submitted to the Mayor within 45 days
   after the date of the engagement letter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Inform the Mayor of the arrangements that the institution has made for the
   proper retention and storage for a minimum of three years of all records
   concerning the administration of the grant program; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Continue to return funds according to the institution’s tuition refund
   policy.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 5013, 5020 (June 1, 2001).
