                                  DC REGULATIONS

DESCRIPTION OF THE MEGA MILLIONS®GAME (§ 30-917)

917.1. MEGA MILLIONS® is a five (5) out of seventy-five (75) plus one (1) out
   of fifteen (15) online lottery game which pays out the Grand Prize, at the
   player’s election, as provided in this chapter either on an annuitized
   pari-mutuel basis or as a cash lump sum payment of the total cash held for
   this prize pool on a pari-mutuel basis. Except as provided in these rules, all
   other prizes are paid on a fixed cash basis.
   
   
   
   917.2  		To play MEGA MILLIONS®, a player shall select five (5) different
   numbers, between one (1) and seventy-five (75) and one additional number
   between one (1) out of fifteen (15) for input into a terminal.

   917.3. The price of each MEGA MILLIONS® play shall be $1.00. A player may
   purchase up to five plays on one ticket. Multiple draws are available for up
   to 20 consecutive draws beginning with the current draw. From time to time,
   the Executive Director may authorize the sale of MEGA MILLIONS® tickets at a
   discount for promotional purposes. Additionally, a multiplier feature,
   MEGAPLIER®, is available for an additional $1.00 per play. Each bet and the
   respective prize payouts are listed in Section 918 of this chapter.

   917.4. MEGA MILLIONS® tickets may be purchased in the District of Columbia
   only at a licensed location from the D.C. Lottery Agent. No MEGA MILLIONS®
   ticket purchased outside of the District of Columbia may be presented to a
   D.C. Lottery Agent for payment within the District of Columbia.

   917.5. MEGA MILLIONS® drawings shall be held at the time(s) and location set
   out in the MUSL MEGA MILLIONS Game Group Agreement.

   917.6. In a single drawing, a player may win in only one prize category per
   single MEGA MILLIONS® play in connection with MEGA MILLIONS® winning
   numbers, and shall be entitled only to the highest prize.

   917.7. For purpose of prize calculation with respect to any MEGA MILLIONS®
   pari-mutuel prize, the calculation shall be rounded down so that prizes shall
   be paid in multiples of one dollar.

   917.8. With respect to the MEGA MILLIONS® grand/jackpot prize, the prize
   amount paid shall be the advertised grand/jackpot prize amount. However, the
   advertised grand/jackpot prize amount is subject to change based on sales
   forecasts and/or actual sales. Additionally, this prize amount may be rounded
   up to the next highest affordable multiple of one million dollars, at the
   discretion of the party lotteries.

   917.9. Subject to the laws and rules governing each party lottery, the number
   of prize categories and the allocation of the prize fund among the prize
   categories may be changed at the discretion of the directors, for promotional
   purposes. Such change shall be announced by public notice.

   917.10. Prize liability cap. Notwithstanding any provision in the rule to the
   contrary, should total prize liability (exclusive of jackpot prize carry
   forward) exceed 300 percent of draw sales or 50 percent of draw sales plus
   $50,000,000, whichever is less, (both hereinafter referred to as the
   &#8220;liability cap&#8221;), the second through fifth prizes shall be paid on
   a pari-mutuel rather than guaranteed prize basis, provided, however, that in
   no event shall the pari-mutuel prize be greater than the guaranteed prize. The
   amount to be used for the allocation of such pari-mutuel prizes (two through
   five) shall be the liability cap less the amount paid for the jackpot prize
   and prize levels six through nine.
   
   
   
   Subscription sales. A subscription sales program may be offered, at the
   discretion of the Executive Director.

   917.11. MEGA MILLIONS® tickets shall show the player&#8217;s selection of
   numbers or Quick Pick (QP) numbers, election of the multiplier feature,
   MEGAPLIER®, boards played, drawing date, jackpot payment option, and
   validation and reference numbers.

   917.12. It shall be the exclusive responsibility of the player to verify the
   accuracy of the player&#8217;s selection(s) and other data printed on the
   ticket. A ticket is a bearer instrument until signed. Neither a party lottery
   nor its sales agents shall be responsible for lost or stolen tickets.

   917.14. In purchasing a ticket issued for MEGA MILLIONS®, the player agrees
   to comply with and be bound by all applicable statutes, administrative rules
   and regulations, and procedures of the party lottery of the Jurisdiction in
   which the MEGA MILLIONS® ticket is issued, and by directives and
   determinations of the director of that party lottery. Additionally, the player
   shall be bound to all applicable provisions in the MEGA MILLIONS® Finance and
   Operations Procedures. The player agrees, as its sole and exclusive remedy
   that claims arising out of a MEGA MILLIONS® ticket can only be pursued
   against the party lottery of ticket purchase. Litigation, if any, shall only
   be maintained within the state in which the MEGA MILLIONS® ticket was
   purchased and only against the party lottery that issued the ticket. Nothing
   in this rule shall be construed as a waiver of any defense or claim the D.C.
   Lottery may have in the event a player pursues litigation against the D.C.
   Lottery, its officers, or employees.

   917.15. A ticket subject to the validations requirements of this title shall
   be the only proof of a wager.
   
   
   
   917.16 	Each drawing shall determine, at random, the six winning numbers in
   accordance with the MEGA MILLIONS® drawing procedures. Any numbers drawn are
   not declared winning numbers until the drawing is certified by the commission
   in accordance with the drawing procedures. The winning numbers shall be used
   in determining all MEGA MILLIONS® winners for that drawing.
   
   
   
   917.17 	For winning MEGA MILLIONS® tickets for which no claim or redemption
   is made within the specified claim period for each respective party lottery,
   the corresponding prize monies shall be returned to the other party lotteries
   in accordance with procedures for the reconciliation of prize liability
   pursuant to the MUSL MEGA MILLIONS Game Group Agreement and as may be agreed
   to from time to time by the directors of the party lotteries.

   917.18. The Executive Director shall announce each incentive or bonus program
   prior to its commencement. The announcement shall specify the beginning and
   ending time, if applicable, of the incentive or bonus program and the value
   for the award(s).
   
   
   
   917.19 	The Prize Pool shall consist of up to fifty-five percent (55%) of each
   drawing period’s sales.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 974, 975 (January 22, 2010); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published 57 DCR 10830 (November 19, 2010); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 14816 (October 18, 2013).
