                                  DC REGULATIONS

GRAND PRIZE PAYMENT (§ 30-942)

942.1. Grand Prize Payments are made as a cash lump sum payment on a
   pari-mutuel basis.

   942.2. A Grand Prize Winner shall receive a “Withholding Taxes Paid
   Prize.”

   942.3. “Withholding Taxes Paid Prizes” is a prize where the Lottery pays
   the prize winner a net prize amount, that consists of the Lottery reducing the
   “gross prize value” by the required federal and jurisdictional withholding
   taxes (if any), and withholding and depositing on behalf of the prize winner
   the required federal and jurisdictional withholding taxes (if any) on the
   “gross prize value” and the Lottery pays the prizewinner the residual
   amount (subject to any setoff requirements). Grand Prize winners will receive
   a Withholding Taxes Paid prize determined after deducting all applicable
   withholding taxes regardless of the “Advertised Grand Prize Amount”, and
   which may be higher or lower than the “Advertised Grand Prize amount.
   Federal and jurisdictional withholding tax rates are subject to change and
   will be determined at the time the prize is awarded.

   942.4. The “Withholding Taxes Paid” prize amount reported to the federal
   and jurisdictional revenue authorities by the Lottery as subject to income
   taxation shall reflect the amount paid to the prize winner and also the amount
   remitted as withholding taxes to the federal and jurisdictional authorities
   (if any) on behalf of the prize winner.  The Lottery and MUSL Product Group
   are not responsible for additional income or other taxes applicable in excess
   of the amount withheld and remitted by the Lottery that may be due when the
   prizewinner files all tax returns for the year the prize is claimed;
   Prizewinners should verify personal tax liability with a financial adviser.
   
   
   
   For example, if a single Grand Prize winner wins the “Advertised Grand
   Prize” of $2,000,000.00 that has a gross prize value of $3,050,000.00, and
   the federal withholding tax rate is 25% and the jurisdictional withholding tax
   rate is 6%, the Lottery will withhold and remit $762,500.00 in federal tax
   withholding, $183,000.00 in jurisdictional tax withholding and pay the prize
   winner $2,104,500.00 in a single cash prize payment (subject to any setoff
   requirements); at the end of the tax year the Lottery will communicate to the
   prizewinner a W-2G Form showing prize won of $3,050,000.00.

   942.5. Grand Prize winners will receive a “Withholding Taxes Paid Prize”
   determined after deducting all applicable withholding taxes regardless of the
   “Advertised Grand Prize Amount”, and which may be higher or lower than the
   “Advertised Grand Prize amount.”

   942.6. Advertised Grand Prize Amount shall be the minimum cash amount that
   would be paid as a “Withholding Taxes Paid” prize to the Grand
   Prizewinner(s), on a pari-mutuel basis, after calculating the potential
   federal and jurisdictional withholding taxes, if any, to the Gross Grand Prize
   Amount. Minimum guaranteed prizes or increases may be waived if the alternate
   funding mechanism set out in § 941.5.
   
   942.7   	Entitlement to the Hot Lotto® Grand Prize, or a per winner portion
   thereof, shall occur upon the:
   
   (a) 	Presentation of a winning Hot Lotto® lottery ticket for validation;
   
   (b) 	Presentation of a completed and signed claim form at a Claim Center; and
   
   (c) 	Satisfaction of all lottery ticket and claim validation requirements set
   forth in this title including, without limitation, all final determinations
   that may be required by the Executive Director.

   942.8. A payment election made after entitlement to the prize occurs is final
   and cannot be revoked, withdrawn, or changed.
   
   942.9  	The Executive Director may adopt procedures, requirements, and
   documentation to complete a Hot Lotto® Grand Prize payment election. The
   Executive Director&#8217;s acceptance of an election is conditional upon his
   or her determination that the election request is valid.

   942.10. If the documentation required by the Executive Director to complete a
   prize election is to be completed and signed in the name of a legal entity,
   the entity must designate in writing one (1) duly authorized natural person to
   execute the documentation.
   
   942.11  	If a Hot Lotto® Grand Prize claimant is unable to complete the
   documentation required by the Executive Director for a prize payment election
   due to a legal, physical, or other disability, a duly authorized
   representative, guardian, conservator, custodian, or other fiduciary may
   complete and execute all required documentation on the claimant&#8217;s
   behalf.
   
   942.12  	If a natural person completing the documentation required by the
   Executive Director to complete prize election is the personal representative
   of the estate of a deceased winner, or the authorized representative of a
   legal person or other entity entitled to claim the prize, he or she shall
   submit his or her letter of administration, trust, other authorizing
   documents, or their legal equivalent, showing an appointment from the court
   having jurisdiction over the estate, or other evidence of legally binding
   authorization.
   
   942.13  	A person who executes documentation required by the Executive
   Director to complete a prize election shall be considered to have represented
   that the information contained therein is accurate and complete. Any person
   who willfully submits false or fraudulent documentation may be prosecuted for
   the offense of making a false statement in accordance with D.C. Official Code
   § 22-2405 (2001 ed.).
   
   942.14  	All provisions of this title relating to the election of a Hot
   Lotto® Grand Prize payment shall be interpreted in a manner that is
   consistent with the purposes, requirements, and restrictions of 26 U.S.C. §
   451.
   
   942.15   	If the Hot Lotto® Grand Prize is not won in a drawing, the prize
   money allocated for the Hot Lotto® Grand Prize shall roll over.
   
   942.16  	Prior to a drawing the Product Group shall determine and publicly
   announce the “Advertised Grand Prize” amount for that drawing. The Gross
   Grand Prize Value amount, that is used to determine the Advertised Grand Prize
   amount, shall be a guaranteed amount, and the Product Group may offer
   guaranteed minimum Gross Grand Prize Value amounts or minimum increases in the
   Gross Grand Prize Value amount between drawings or make other changes in the
   allocation of prize money where the Product Group finds that it would be in
   the best interest of the game.   Guaranteed Gross Grand Prize Value amounts
   shall be funded as determined by the Product Group.
   
   
   
   942.17   	Grand Prizewinner shares shall be determined as follows:  if there
   are multiple Grand Prize winners during a single drawing, then a
   winner&#8217;s share of the Grand Prize shall be determined by dividing the
   Gross Grand Prize Value by the number of winners.
   
   
   
   942.18  	A share of the Hot Lotto® Grand Prize may be rounded to facilitate
   the purchase of an appropriate funding mechanism. Funds remaining after the
   prize has been rounded down on a Hot Lotto® Grand Prize win,
   (&#8220;breakage&#8221;), shall be added to the first cash payment to the
   winner or winners. Prizes which, under this chapter, may become
   single-payment, pari-mutuel prizes, may be rounded down so that prizes can be
   paid in multiples of whole dollars. Breakage resulting from rounding these
   prizes shall be carried forward to the prize pool for the next draw.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 2400 (March 5, 2004); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 6656 (May 10, 2013).
