                                  DC REGULATIONS

DESCRIPTION OF DC FAST PLAY GAMES (§ 30-949)

949.1. The Agency shall conduct DC Fast Play games to the public and for such
   time periods as the Executive Director determines. DC Fast Play games are
   instant ticket style games that are printed and played through the Agency
   retailer’s online terminal. DC Fast Play games’ prizes are fixed payout
   levels.  DC Fast Play games’ cost and prizes vary per game played.

   949.2. DC Fast Play game tickets are generated by the Agency’s gaming system
   and contain all the information necessary to play the game.

   949.3. The Executive Director will set the cost of a DC Fast Play ticket for
   each game. Some DC Fast Play games’ costs may vary depending on the game.
   Each DC Fast Play Game cost shall be made available on the Agency’s website
   found at http://www.dclottery.com. Please refer to each specific game’s
   rules for cost per play.

   949.4. DC Fast Play rules, prize structure, and prize probability shall be
   made available on the Agency’s website found at http://www.dclottery.com. DC
   Fast Play rules, prizes, and prize schedule payouts vary depending on the
   game. Please refer to each specific game’s rule and its prize structure and
   prize probability.

   949.5. DC Fast Play tickets have a variety of games and each ticket is
   randomly drawn from their separate pool of tickets specified for each game.

   949.6. The pool of tickets varies from game to game and is stated in the
   individual game prizes and or prize schedule payout section for each specific
   DC Fast Play games on the Agency’s website.

   949.7. Drawn ticket(s) are randomly chosen from the pool of available tickets.
   DC Fast Play Tickets are sorted in the pool to reflect the percentage of
   winners and non-winners specified for each game.
   
   949.8 	The determination of DC Fast Play winners are subject to all applicable
   Agency rules and regulations including but not limited to the ticket
   validation requirements of chapter 6 (Claims and Prize Payments) of title 30
   of the DCMR.
   
   
   
   949.9 	A player is only entitled to the highest prize won from any single DC
   Fast Play game ticket unless specifically stated in the game rules.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A DC Fast Play game ticket may not be voided or cancelled by returning the
   ticket to the Agency or the selling Agency’s retailer, including tickets
   that are printed in error.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2677 (March 25, 2011);
   as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 3146 (April 20,
   2012).
