                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE AND PLAN APPROVAL PROCESS FOR FIRST AMENDMENT ASSEMBLIES[COLON]
PROCESSING APPLICATIONS (ยง 24-706)

706.1. Subject to the appeal process set forth in section 712, the authority
   to receive and review a notice of and an application for approval of a plan
   for a First Amendment assembly on District streets, sidewalks, and other
   public ways, and in District parks, and to grant, deny, or revoke an assembly
   plan, is vested exclusively with the Chief of Police or his or her designee.

   706.2. Persons or groups providing notice to and applying for approval of a
   plan from the District government to conduct a First Amendment assembly on a
   District street, sidewalk, or other public way, or in a District park, shall
   not be required to obtain approval for the assembly from any other official,
   agency, or entity in the District government, including the District of
   Columbia Emergency Management Agency, the Mayor&#8217;s Special Events Task
   Group, or the Department of Parks and Recreation.

   706.3. Applications for plan approval shall be filed not less than fifteen
   (15) days prior to the proposed date of the event. Applicants are encouraged
   to submit applications for approval of an assembly plan as far in advance as
   is practical. The purpose of the notice and plan approval process is to avoid
   situations where more than one group seeks to use the same space at the same
   time. Early submission gives the Chief of Police or his or her designee and
   the applicant the maximum time to resolve any issues that may arise, and
   minimizes the possibility that an approved plan will already have been issued
   to another group for the desired time and place. It also provides the
   Metropolitan Police Department and other District agencies the ability to
   provide appropriate police protection, traffic control, and other support for
   participants and other individuals.

   706.4. The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall take final action on a
   notice of and an application for approval of a plan for a First Amendment
   assembly within a reasonably prompt period of time following receipt of the
   completed application, considering such factors as the anticipated size of the
   assembly, the proposed date and location, and the number of days between the
   application date and the proposed assembly date.

   706.5. Where a complete application for approval of a First Amendment assembly
   plan is filed sixty (60) days or more prior to the proposed assembly date, the
   application shall receive final action no later than thirty (30) days prior to
   the proposed assembly. This provision shall not apply where the applicant has
   voluntarily agreed to waive the thirty (30) day time limit.

   706.6. Following the approval of an assembly plan under this Chapter, the
   Chief of Police or his or her designee may, after consultations with the
   person or group giving notice of the assembly, amend the plan to make
   reasonable modifications to the assembly location or route up until ten (10)
   days prior to the assembly date based on considerations of public safety.

   706.7. Where modifications to the assembly location or route are requested by
   the applicant, the approved plan may be amended at anytime by the Chief of
   Police or his or her designee prior to the date of the event in accordance
   with the applicant&#8217;s request.

   706.8. Where applications to approve a First Amendment assembly plan are not
   submitted in a timely manner, the Chief of Police or his or her designee may
   deny an application in the interest of public safety based on the criteria set
   forth in section 706.9. Applications filed less than ten (10) days prior to
   the proposed date of the event shall receive favorable action only if there is
   sufficient time to review the application and to coordinate with the event
   organizers to resolve questions or problems concerning the application.

   706.9. A proposed First Amendment assembly plan shall be approved if, after
   consideration of the application and other information that may otherwise be
   obtained, the Chief of Police or his or her designee concludes that:
   
   
   
   (a)	The conduct of the event will not substantially interrupt the safe and
   orderly movement of other vehicular and pedestrian traffic contiguous to its
   route;
   
   
   
   (b)	The conduct of the event will not divert such numbers of police officers
   from their normal police duties that the city would be deprived of reasonable
   police protection;
   
   
   
   (c)	The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles in the assembly and
   disbanding areas and along the event route will not substantially interfere
   with the movement of police, fire, ambulance, and other emergency vehicles on
   the streets;
   
   
   
   (d)	The conduct of the event route will not substantially interfere with any
   of the designated Emergency Evacuation Routes outlined in the District
   Response Plan;
   
   
   
   (e)	The event is scheduled to move from its assembly location to its
   disbanding location expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute;
   
   
   
   (f)	The event will not substantially interfere with any other event for which
   an assembly plan has already been approved;
   
   
   
   (g)	The applicant has not materially misrepresented any facts or information
   set forth in the application for the an assembly plan;
   
   
   
   (h)	The applicant has furnished proof that, if the assembly or disbanding
   locations or the route of event, encroach upon, occupy, or traverse any area
   within the jurisdiction of the federal or non-District local governments,
   permits or permission have been obtained from the appropriate authorities; and
   
   
   
   (i)	The proposed event does not create a substantial possibility of violent,
   disorderly conduct likely to endanger public safety or to result in
   significant property damage.

   706.10. Any person seeking approval of a First Amendment assembly plan shall
   file an application with the Chief of Police on a form issued by the Chief of
   Police in person or by mail at the Metropolitan Police Department, Special
   Operations Division Headquarters, currently located at 2301 L Street, N.W.,
   Washington, D.C. 20037. Application forms can be obtained online at
   mpdc.dc.gov. Application forms will also be sent by fax upon request, and may
   be filed by fax at 202-727-6839.

   706.11. The person or group requesting approval of a First Amendment assembly
   plan shall make representations concerning the nature of the event, sufficient
   for the Chief of Police or his or her designee to classify the activity as a
   First Amendment assembly within the meaning of section 705.2, and, in
   addition, shall provide the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address, and telephone number of the sponsoring organization (if
   any) and its chief officer;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant and the person or
   persons chiefly responsible for the conduct of the event, if other than the
   applicant;
   
   
   
   (c)	The purpose of the event;
   
   
   
   (d)	The date when the event is to be conducted;
   
   
   
   (e)	The approximate times when the event is to begin and end, and the
   approximate times when assembly for, and disbanding of, the event are to take
   place;
   
   
   
   (f)	The specific proposed route of the event if it is a parade, march, race,
   or walk-a-thon;
   
   
   
   (g)	The locations of the assembly area, any related stands or other
   structures, and the disbanding area for the event;
   
   
   
   (h)	The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles that will
   constitute the event;
   
   
   
   (i)	A description of the types of animals; the types of vehicles to be used;
   the number of bands and other musical units and sound trucks to be used; and
   the number, type, and size of banners, placards, and signs to be used; and
   
   
   
   (j)	The number of persons who will be designated to monitor the event and the
   name of the person in charge.

   706.12. The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall, in writing, either
   approve the application for the proposed First Amendment assembly plan, as
   submitted, if consistent with these regulations, or, if not, inform the person
   or group giving notice of an assembly of the reasons for any decision to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Deny an application for approval of a First Amendment assembly plan;
   
   
   
   (b)	Revoke an assembly plan pursuant to section 711; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Approve an assembly plan subject to time, place, or manner restrictions
   that the applicant has advised the Chief of Police are objectionable to the
   applicant

   706.13. If a timely-filed application is denied or modified, the applicant
   shall be served with a written notice of denial or modification, stating the
   specific reasons therefore, at least ten (10) days prior to the proposed date
   of the proposed event.

   706.14. Service of the notice of denial or modification shall be made
   personally or by certified mail. At the applicant&#8217;s request, a copy of
   the notice shall also be sent by fax or by e-mail.

   706.15. If the late filing of an application or ongoing negotiations
   concerning the terms of plan approval make it impractical to issue a written
   notice of denial or modification at least ten (10) days prior to the proposed
   date of the event, every effort shall be made to promptly notify the
   organizers of the event once a decision to deny or modify the application has
   been made; and a written notice of denial or modification shall be served as
   soon as reasonably possible.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 1079 (February 1, 2008).
