                                  DC REGULATIONS

FIRST AMENDMENT ASSEMBLIES[COLON] GENERAL PROVISIONS (ยง 24-705)

705.1. It is the declared public policy of the District of Columbia that
   persons and groups have a right to organize and participate in peaceful First
   Amendment assemblies on the streets, sidewalks, and other public ways, and in
   the parks of the District of Columbia, and to engage in First Amendment
   assembly near the object of their protest so they may be seen and heard,
   subject to reasonable restrictions designed to protect public safety, persons,
   and property, and to accommodate the interest of persons not participating in
   the assemblies to use the streets, sidewalks, and other public ways to travel
   to their intended destinations, and use the parks for recreational purposes.

   705.2. A &#8220;First Amendment assembly&#8221; means a demonstration, rally,
   parade, march, vigil, picket line, or other similar gathering conducted for
   the purpose of persons expressing their political, social, religious, or other
   views.

   705.3. The Metropolitan Police Department may impose reasonable time, place
   and manner restrictions on First Amendment assemblies held on District
   streets, sidewalks, or other public ways, or in District parks. The imposition
   of restrictions may occur:
   
   
   
   (a)	Through the approval of a plan, where organizers give advance notice of
   the intent to engage in a First Amendment assembly;
   
   
   
   (b)	During the occurrence of a First Amendment assembly for which a plan has
   been approved where restrictions in addition to those set forth in the
   approved plan are:
   
   
   
   (1)	Necessary to implement the substance and intent in the approval of the
   plan;
   
   
   
   (2)	Required due to the occurrence of actions or events unrelated to the First
   Amendment assembly that were not anticipated at the time of the approval of
   the plan and that were not caused by the plan-holder, counter-demonstrators,
   or the police; or
   
   
   
   (3)	Necessary due to a determination by the Metropolitan Police Department
   during the assembly that there exists an imminent likelihood of violence
   endangering persons or threatening to cause significant property damage; or
   
   
   
   (c)	During a First Amendment assembly where a plan was not approved for the
   assembly.

   705.4. No time, place, or manner restriction regarding a First Amendment
   assembly shall be based on the content of the beliefs expressed or anticipated
   to be expressed during the assembly, or on factors such as the attire or
   appearance of persons participating or expected to participate in an assembly,
   nor may such restrictions favor non-First Amendment activities over First
   Amendment activities.

   705.5. For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions may apply
   either to a First-Amendment assembly, or a non-First Amendment activity
   (depending upon whether the event meets the elements of a First Amendment
   assembly as set forth in section 705.2):
   
   
   
   (a)	Parade. A &#8220;parade&#8221; is any formation, march, procession
   consisting of persons, animals, vehicles, or a combination of persons,
   animals, and vehicles, traveling in unison with a common purpose, upon any
   public street, highway, alley, sidewalk or other public way, within the
   territorial jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Police Department, in a manner
   that ordinarily would be in violation of any provision of DCMR Title 18
   &#8220;Vehicles and Traffic,&#8221; or any other applicable law or regulation.
   
   
   
   (b)	Race. A &#8220;race&#8221; is defined as any formation or procession of
   persons traveling along the same established route, with the common purpose of
   competing in an athletic contest. A race has a starting line and a finish
   line, and is often organized for charitable purposes.
   
   
   
   (c)	Walk-a-thon. A &#8220;walk-a-thon&#8221; is defined as any formation or
   procession of persons, walking along the same established route, with a common
   purpose, but without the purpose of competing against one another. A
   walk-a-thon has a starting line and a finish line, and is generally organized
   for charitable purposes.

   705.6. It is not an offense under these regulations for persons to conduct a
   First Amendment assembly on a District street, sidewalk, or other public way,
   or in a District park, without having provided notice or obtained an approved
   assembly plan.

   705.7. Providing notice and seeking plan approval under these regulations is
   designed to avoid situations where more than one group seeks to use the same
   space at the same time and to provide the Metropolitan Police Department and
   other District agencies the ability to provide appropriate police protection,
   traffic control, and other support for participants and other individuals.

   705.8. Except as provided in Section 705.9, a person or group who wishes to
   conduct a First Amendment assembly on a District street, sidewalk, or other
   public way, or in a District park, shall give notice and apply for approval of
   an assembly plan before conducting the assembly, or in the case of a non-First
   Amendment assembly, shall apply for a permit under applicable provisions of
   these regulations for non-First Amendment assembly events.

   705.9. A person or group who wishes to conduct a First Amendment assembly on a
   District street, sidewalk, or other public way, or in a District park, is not
   required to give notice or apply for approval of an assembly plan before
   conducting the assembly where:
   
   
   
   (a)	The assembly will take place on public sidewalks and crosswalks and will
   not prevent other pedestrians from using the sidewalks and crosswalks;
   
   
   
   (b)	The person or group reasonably anticipates that fewer than 50 persons will
   participate in the assembly, and the assembly will not occur on a District
   street; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The assembly is for the purpose of an immediate and spontaneous expression
   of views in response to a public event.705.10 The Mayor shall not enforce any
   user fees on persons or groups that organize or conduct First Amendment
   assemblies.

   705.11. The Mayor shall not require, separate from or in addition to the
   requirements for giving notice of or applying for approval of an assembly plan
   for a First Amendment assembly, that persons give notice to, or obtain a
   permit or plan from, the Chief of Police, or other District officials or
   agencies, as a prerequisite for making or delivering an address, speech, or
   sermon regarding any political, social, or religious subject in any District
   street, sidewalk, other public way, or park.

   705.12. The Mayor shall not require, separate from or in addition to the
   requirements for giving notice of or applying for approval of an assembly plan
   for a First Amendment assembly, that persons give notice to, or obtain a
   permit or plan from the Chief of Police, the Department of Consumer and
   Regulatory Affairs, or any other District official or agency as a prerequisite
   for using a stand or structure in connection with such an assembly; provided,
   that a First Amendment assembly plan may contain limits on the nature, size,
   or number of stands or structures to be used as required to maintain public
   safety. Individuals conducting a First Amendment assembly under section 705.9
   may use a stand or structure so long as it does not prevent others from using
   the sidewalk, roadway, or ingress/egress to existing buildings/businesses.

   705.13. The Mayor shall not require, separate from or in addition to the
   requirements for giving notice of or applying for approval of an assembly plan
   for a First Amendment assembly, that persons give notice to, or obtain a
   permit or plan from, the Chief of Police, the Director of the Department of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, or any other District official or agency as a
   prerequisite for selling demonstration-related merchandise within an area
   covered by an approved plan or within an assembly covered by section 705.9;
   provided, that nothing in this subsection shall be construed to authorize any
   person to sell merchandise in a plan-approved area contrary to the wishes of
   the plan-holder.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by D.C.Act published at 52 DCR 2296 (March 11, 2005); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 1079 (February 1, 2008).
