                                  DC REGULATIONS

FALSE STATEMENTS, ALTERATIONS, FORGERY, AND DISHONORED CHECKS (ยง 18-1104)

1104.1. No person shall make any false statement in any application or other
   document required by the terms of this title.

   1104.2. No person shall alter, with fraudulent intent, any registration
   certificate, temporary registration certificate, license plate or plates, or
   temporary identification tags, issued by the Department or by any other state
   or jurisdiction.

   1104.3. No person shall alter or falsify with fraudulent intent, or forge any
   assignment of any certificate of title, nor shall any person hold or use any
   such assignment knowing the same to have been altered, forged, or falsified.

   1104.4. No person shall forge or counterfeit, make or have made, print or have
   printed, or have in his or her possession, any item or document which shall
   purport to be a certificate of title, temporary registration certificate,
   registration certificate, vehicle identification tag, or revalidation sticker
   or tab, unless the item was issued by the government of the District of
   Columbia, or federal, state, territorial, or foreign government (or a
   political subdivision of one of the foregoing) and is the genuine document or
   item intended to be issued. No person shall be liable under this subsection
   when such items are in his or her possession under the good faith belief that
   the items o r documents are genuine.

   1104.5. A fifty dollar ($ 50.00) fee shall be imposed on any person who gives
   or causes to be given in payment of any tax, assessment, fee, charge, or other
   obligation due the District of Columbia, a check which is dishonored or not
   duly paid.

   1104.6. Until the fees and collection charges are paid, no services or
   products of the Department, including but not limited to, the following items
   shall be provided to that person:
   
   
   
   (a)	Original or duplicate motor vehicle driver&#8217;s licenses;
   
   
   
   (b)	Vehicle identification tags;
   
   
   
   (c)	Special use tags;
   
   
   
   (d)	Original or duplicate registration certificates;
   
   
   
   (e)	Temporary registration certificates; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Original or duplicate certificates of title.
