                                  DC REGULATIONS

ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS &#8211; CRIMINAL HISTORY (§ 17-2105)

2105.1. No person shall be certified or employed as a security officer, nor
   shall an existing security officer have his or her certification renewed,
   until the Mayor has conducted a criminal history check of the applicant
   through the record systems of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the
   Metropolitan Police Department.

   2105.2. In evaluating an application for a security officer certification, the
   Mayor shall consider:
   
   
   
   (a)	An applicant&#8217;s conviction history;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any court finding of the applicant&#8217;s mental incompetence that has
   not been removed or expunged;
   
   
   
   (c)	An applicant&#8217;s history of criminal traffic offenses;
   
   
   
   (d)	The bearing, if any, the criminal offense for which the person was
   previously convicted will have on his or her fitness or ability to perform one
   or more duties or responsibilities of a security officer;
   
   
   
   (e)	The time that has elapsed since the occurrence of the criminal offense or
   court finding of mental incompetence;
   
   
   
   (f)	The age of the applicant at the time of the occurrence of the criminal
   offense or court finding of mental incompetence;
   
   
   
   (g)	The frequency and seriousness of the criminal offense; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Any information produced by the applicant, or produced on his or her
   behalf, in regard to his or her rehabilitation and good conduct since the
   occurrence of the criminal offense or court finding of mental incompetence.

   2105.3. If a security officer is arrested, the security officer shall report
   the arrest to the Mayor within two (2) business days. The certification of the
   security officer shall be suspended immediately, and the security agency shall
   be notified of such suspension immediately, pending further disposition. If a
   security officer fails to report an arrest as required, the security
   officer&#8217;s certification shall be summarily revoked.

   2105.4. The Mayor shall conduct random criminal history checks of security
   officers through the record systems of the Metropolitan Police Department. The
   certification of any security officer whose record indicates an unreported
   arrest or conviction shall be summarily revoked, and the security agency shall
   be notified of the revocation immediately. The certification of any security
   officer whose record indicates an outstanding warrant shall be suspended
   immediately, and the security agency shall be notified of the suspension
   immediately, pending further disposition.

   2105.5. Notwithstanding any other law or regulation, the information obtained
   from criminal history checks conducted pursuant to this chapter considered by
   the Mayor shall not be limited by the date of the offense nor shall the
   information obtained and considered be limited to arrests resulting in
   conviction.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: §§2.1 and 2.4 of the Regulation Establishing Standards for
   Certification and Employment for Security Officers, Reg. No. 74-31, approved
   December 1, 1974, 21 DCR 1203 (December 13, 1974); as amended by D.C. ACT
   16-465 published at 53 DCR 6726 (August 18, 2006).
