                                  DC REGULATIONS

ISSUANCE, RENEWAL, AND DISPLAY OF LICENSES FOR SECURITY AGENCIES (ยง 17-2125)

2125.1. The Mayor shall issue a 2-year license to each applicant for a
   security agency license who meets the requirements of this chapter.

   2125.2. Each security agency license shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	A certificate stating the full name of the licensee;
   
   
   
   (b)	The location of the principal office and of each branch office of the
   licensed security agency;
   
   
   
   (c)	The date of issuance of the license;
   
   
   
   (d)	The date on which the license expires; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The name and address of the representative member, if the licensee is a
   firm.

   2125.3. While a security agency license is in effect, it authorizes the
   licensee to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Conduct a business that provides security officer services for
   compensation or for hire;
   
   
   
   (b)	Maintain an office for the conduct of business at each location stated in
   the security agency license certificate;
   
   
   
   (c)	Employ certified individuals as security personnel to provide security
   officer services to the public on behalf of the licensee; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Represent the licensee to the public as a licensed security agency.

   2125.4. Unless a security agency license is renewed for a 2-year term as
   provided in this section, the license expires on the date the Mayor sets.

   2125.5. At least one month before a security agency license expires, the Mayor
   shall mail to the licensee, at the last known address of the licensee, a
   renewal application form, and a notice that states:
   
   
   
   (a)	The date on which the current license expires;
   
   
   
   (b)	That the Mayor must receive the renewal application and the statements
   required under this chapter at least fifteen (15) days before the license
   expiration date for the renewal to be issued and mailed before the license
   expires;
   
   
   
   (c)	The amount of the renewal fee;
   
   
   
   (d)	That, if the statements required under this chapter are not received at
   least 15 days before the license expiration date, a fee of $10 per day shall
   be charged against the licensee until the statements are received; and
   
   
   
   (e)	That the submission of a false statement in the renewal application or in
   the annual statements is cause for revocation of the license.

   2125.6. A security agency licensee periodically may renew the license for an
   additional 2-year term, if the licensee:
   
   
   
   (a)	Otherwise is entitled to be licensed;
   
   
   
   (b)	Pays to the District a renewal fee of $250, if the licensee is an
   individual, or $500, if the licensee is a firm, along with any late fee
   required under this chapter; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Submits to the Mayor a renewal application on a form that the Mayor
   provides, along with the statements required under this chapter.

   2125.7. The Mayor shall renew the security agency license of each licensee who
   meets the requirements of this section.

   2125.8. If the Mayor does not receive the documents required under this
   section at least fifteen (15) days before the license expiration date, the
   Mayor shall charge the licensee a late fee of $10 per day until the documents
   are received.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Amended by D.C. ACT 16-465 published at 53 DCR 6726 (August 18,
   2006).
