                                  DC REGULATIONS

BACKGROUND CHECK REQUIREMENT (§ 17-8501)

8501.1. Each applicant for an initial license, registration, or certification;
   renewal of a license, registration, or certification; reinstatement of a
   license registration or certification; or person going from an inactive status
   to active status shall obtain a criminal background check.  An initial
   applicant for licensure, registration, or certification who does not undergo a
   criminal background check shall not be issued a license, registration or
   certification until the background check has been completed.

   8501.2. Criminal background checks shall be conducted in accordance with
   Metropolitan Police Department (MPD) and Federal Bureau of Investigations
   (FBI) policies and procedures and in a FBI-approved environment, by means of
   fingerprint and National Criminal Information Center checks and procedures.

   8501.3. The FBI criminal background check shall disclose the criminal history
   of the prospective applicant for the previous seven (7) years, in all
   jurisdictions within which the prospective applicant has worked or resided
   within the seven (7) years prior to the check.  The MPD shall conduct a
   criminal background check that shall disclose misdemeanor violations, if any,
   of District law.

   8501.4. An applicant who is obtaining a license, registration, or
   certification by endorsement shall not be required to undergo a criminal
   background check provided that a criminal background check was previously done
   on the applicant within four (4) years prior to the date of submission of the
   application.

   8501.5. A licensee, registrant, or certification holder shall be required to
   undergo a subsequent criminal background check every four (4) years from the
   date of the licensee’s registrant’s or certification holder’s previous
   background check.
   
   Source: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 6025, 6026 (July 31, 2009).
