                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXERCISE OF OPTIONS (ยง 27-2008)

2008.1. When exercising an option, the contracting officer shall provide
   written notice to the contractor within the time period specified in the
   contract.

   2008.2. When a contract provides for economic price adjustment and the
   contractor requests a revision of the price, the contracting officer shall
   determine the effect of the adjustment on prices under the option before the
   option is exercised.

   2008.3. Before exercising an option, the contracting officer shall make a
   written determination that the exercise will be in accordance with the terms
   of the option and the provisions of ยง2008.4.

   2008.4. A contracting officer shall exercise an option only after determining
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That sufficient budget authority is available;
   
   
   
   (b)	That the requirement covered by the option fulfills an existing District
   need; and
   
   
   
   (c)	That the exercise of the option will be the most advantageous method of
   fulfilling the District&#8217;s need, when price and other factors are
   considered.

   2008.5. The contracting officer, after considering price and other factors,
   shall make a determination on the basis of one (1) of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A new solicitation fails to produce a better price or a more advantageous
   offer than that offered by the option, provided that if it is anticipated that
   the best price available is the option price (or that this is the more
   advantageous offer), the contracting officer shall not use this method to test
   the market);
   
   
   
   (b)	An informal analysis of prices or an examination of the market indicates
   that the option price is better than prices that would be available in the
   market or that the option would be the most advantageous offer; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The short time between the award of the contract containing the option and
   the exercise of the option indicates that the option price is the lowest price
   obtainable or the most advantageous offer.

   2008.6. When determining whether to exercise an option, the contracting
   officer shall take into account the District&#8217;s need for continuity of
   operations and the potential cost of disrupting operations.

   2008.7. The contract modification or other written document which notifies the
   contractor of the exercise of the option shall cite the option provision as
   authority for the action.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1514 (February 26, 1988).
