                                  DC REGULATIONS

MULTIYEAR CONTRACT SOLICITATIONS (ยง 27-2002)

2002.1. Each solicitation for a multiyear contract shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The requirements by item or services for the first fiscal year;
   
   
   
   (b)	Multiyear contract requirements including requirements for each fiscal
   year;
   
   
   
   (c)	A requirement that the unit price for each item or service shall be the
   same for all fiscal years included, except to the extent that the contracting
   officer determines that it is in the best interests of the District to include
   an economic price adjustment clause approved by the Director;
   
   
   
   (d)	The criteria that will be used by the District to compare the lowest
   evaluated submission on the first fiscal year&#8217;s requirement with the
   lowest evaluated submission on the multiyear requirements;
   
   
   
   (e)	The criteria for evaluation factors other than price where the procurement
   is on the basis of factors in addition to price;
   
   
   
   (f)	If the multiyear procurement is on the basis of factors in addition to
   price, the relative importance of the evaluation factors;
   
   
   
   (g)	Notice that if the District determines before award that only the first
   fiscal year requirements are needed, the District may evaluate offers and make
   award solely on the basis of price offered on the first fiscal year
   requirements;
   
   
   
   (h)	A cancellation ceiling established in accordance with ยง2004;
   
   
   
   (i)	A prominently placed notice describing the multiyear features of the
   solicitation;
   
   
   
   (j)	A statement that an award will not be made on less than the first fiscal
   year requirements; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Notice of the special cancellation provisions applicable to multiyear
   contracts.

   2002.2. The solicitation for a multiyear contract shall require that each
   response must quote a price for the first fiscal year of the contract and for
   each subsequent fiscal year of the contract, as well as a price for the total
   multiyear requirement.

   2002.3. The contracting officer shall evaluate bids or offers to determine the
   lowest overall evaluated cost to the District for both the multiyear and the
   first fiscal year requirements. The contracting officer shall also compare the
   cost of buying the total requirement under a multiyear procurement with the
   cost of buying the total requirement in successive independent requirements.

   2002.4. If the procurement is by competitive sealed bids (on the basis of
   price and price related factors), the contracting officer shall award the
   contract on the basis of the lowest evaluated unit price determined in
   accordance with ยง2003, whether that price is based on a single-year or a
   multiyear contract.

   2002.5. If the procurement is by competitive sealed proposals (on the basis of
   price and other non-price related factors), the contracting officer shall
   award the contract to the offeror submitting the proposal most advantageous to
   the District on the basis of price and other factors considered.

   2002.6. In the case of a sole source procurement, a contracting officer shall
   make an award only if a detailed review of the cost and technical proposal
   supports the objectives of multiyear contracting, and significant cost savings
   will result from the award of a multiyear procurement contract.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1507 (February 26, 1988).
