                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION PROCEDURE (ยง 14-1402)

1402.1. All applications for Certificate of Occupancy shall be filed with the
   Director or his or her designee on the prescribed forms.

   1402.2. The Director or his or her designee shall collect the designated fees
   and refer the application to appropriate inspection agencies within five (5)
   working days from the date of filing.

   1402.3. For changes in ownership of structures, land, or parts with an
   existing valid Certificate of Occupancy, a new Certificate of Occupancy shall
   be issued in the name of the new owner (without reinspection), provided there
   is no proposed change in use or occupancy load.

   1402.4. For new construction, renovation, and changes in use or occupancy
   load, no application for a Certificate of Occupancy shall be accepted unless
   the applicant provides proof that required permit work (electrical, plumbing
   and construction) is completed and has been approved and that the building or
   premises complies with the requirements of the Zoning Regulations and related
   building, electrical, plumbing, mechanical and fire prevention requirements.

   1402.5. Following the filing of an application, inspections shall be made
   within fifteen (15) working days from the date of referral and the applicant
   shall be provided with a written composite notice of all existing violations
   of the applicable Codes and Regulations within ten (10) working days from the
   date of the initial inspection.

   1402.6. The notice of violations shall be hand delivered to the applicant or
   sent by certified mail, return receipt requested. The inspection agency shall
   maintain the returned receipt for review by the Director.

   1402.7. If an inspection has not been performed by an agency within fifteen
   (15) working days, the respective agency shall report all relevant facts to
   the Director or his or her designee issuing Certificates of Occupancy and the
   Director or his or her designee shall report these facts to the applicant
   within ten (10) days.

   1402.8. If a second visit is required to complete the initial inspection, the
   reinspection shall be made within ten (10) working days from the date of the
   initial inspection.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 29 DCR 5571, 5572 (December
   17, 1982).
