                                  DC REGULATIONS

ENFORCEMENT FOR SEVERE OZONE NONATTAINMENT AREAS (ยง 20-307)

307.1. Pursuant to Section 182 (d) of the federal Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.
   7511a, if the United States Environmental Protection Agency
   (&#8220;EPA&#8221;) determines that the District of Columbia has failed to
   attain the national primary ambient air quality standard for ozone (O3) by the
   applicable attainment date for severe ozone nonattainment areas, the owners or
   operators of each major stationary source of oxides of nitrogen (NOx) or
   volatile organic compounds (VOCs) located in the District of Columbia shall,
   except as otherwise provided under subsection 307.2, pay a fee to the District
   of Columbia, for NOx emissions if the stationary source qualifies as major
   with respect to NOx emissions, or for VOC emissions if the stationary source
   qualifies as major with respect to VOC emissions, computed in accordance with
   paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this subsection, for each calendar year
   beginning after the attainment date, until the area is redesignated as an
   attainment area for ozone;
   
   
   
   (a)	The fee shall equal five thousand dollars ($ 5,000), adjusted in
   accordance with paragraph (c), per ton of NOx or VOC emitted by the source
   during the calendar year in excess of eighty percent (80%) of the baseline
   amount, computed under paragraph (b);
   
   
   
   (b)	For purposes of this section, the baseline amount shall be computed as the
   lower of the amount of actual NOx or VOC emissions or NOx or VOC emissions
   allowed under the permit applicable to the source (or, if no such permit has
   been issued for the attainment year, the amount of NOx or VOC emissions
   allowed under the State Implementation Plan) during the attainment year.
   Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the baseline amount may be determined
   over a period of more than one calendar year in accordance with guidance
   issued by the EPA; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The fee amount under paragraph (a) shall be adjusted annually, beginning
   in calendar year 1991, in accordance with the federal Clean Air Act section
   502(b)(3)(B)(v), 42 U.S.C. 7661a(b)(3)(B)(v), relating to inflation
   adjustment.

   307.2. Notwithstanding any provision of this section, no source shall be
   required to pay any fee under subsection 307.1 with respect to emissions
   during any year that is treated as an extension year under the federal Clean
   Air Act section 181(a)(5), 42 U.S.C. 7511(a)(5).

   307.3. Any fees, penalties, and interest collected under this section shall be
   deposited in a special fund in the District of Columbia Treasury and shall be
   utilized solely to cover all reasonable direct and indirect costs required to
   support the air quality program as set forth in Chapter 3.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at51 DCR 3878 (April 16, 2004).
