                                  DC REGULATIONS

PERMIT REVIEW BY THE ADMINISTRATOR AND AFFECTED STATES (§ 20-304)

304.1. The transmission of information to the Administrator shall be
   accomplished as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Unless the Administrator waives this requirement, the Mayor shall provide
   to the Administrator a copy of each permit application (including any
   application for permit modification), each proposed permit, and each final
   Part 70 permit. The Mayor may require the applicant to provide a copy of the
   permit application (including the compliance plan) directly to the
   Administrator. Upon agreement with the Administrator, the Mayor may transmit
   to the Administrator a permit application summary form and any relevant
   portion of the permit application and compliance plan, in place of the
   complete permit application and compliance plan. To the extent practicable,
   the preceding information will be provided in computer-readable format
   compatible with the Administrator&#8217;s national database management system;
   and
   
   
   
   (b)	The Mayor shall keep for five (5) years the records and transmit to the
   Administrator such information as the Administrator may reasonably require to
   ascertain whether the State program complies with the requirements of the Act
   or of Part 70.

   304.2. Review of permit information by the Affected States shall be allowed in
   the following manner:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Mayor shall give notice of each draft permit to any Affected State on
   or before the time that the Mayor provides this notice to the public under §
   303.10, except to the extent § 303.5(b) or 303.5(c) requires the timing of
   the notice to be different; and
   
   
   
   (b)	As part of the Mayor&#8217;s transmittal of a proposed permit to the
   Administrator (or as soon as possible after the transmittal for minor permit
   modification procedures under § 303.5(b) or (c)), the Mayor shall notify the
   Administrator and any Affected State in writing of any refusal by the Mayor to
   accept all recommendations for the proposed permit that the Affected State
   submitted during the public or Affected State review period. The notice will
   include the Mayor&#8217;s reasons for not accepting any such recommendation.
   The Mayor is not required to accept recommendations that are not based on
   applicable requirements or the requirements of this chapter.

   304.3. The Administrator shall object to the issuance of any proposed permit
   determined by the Administrator not to be in compliance with the requirements
   of the Part 70 regulations:
   
   
   
   (a)	No permit for which an application must be transmitted to the
   Administrator under § 304.1 shall be issued, if the Administrator objects to
   its issuance in writing within forty-five (45) days of receipt of the proposed
   permit and all necessary supporting information. Except as provided in §
   304.3(c), the grounds for any such objection shall only be that the permit
   will not comply with applicable requirements or 40 CFR Part 70 regulations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any Administrator&#8217;s objection under § 304.3(a) shall include a
   statement of the Administrator&#8217;s reasons for objection and a description
   of the terms and conditions that the permit must include to respond to the
   objections. The Administrator will provide the permit applicant a copy of the
   objection;
   
   
   
   (c)	Failure of the Mayor to do any of the following also shall constitute
   grounds for an objection:
   
   
   
   (1)	Comply with § 304.1 or 304.2;
   
   
   
   (2)	Transmit any information necessary to review adequately the proposed
   permit; or
   
   
   
   (3)	Process the permit under the procedures approved to meet § 303.10 except
   for minor permit modifications; and
   
   
   
   (d)	If the Mayor fails, within ninety (90) days after the date of an objection
   under § 304.3(a), to revise and transmit a proposed permit in response to the
   objection, the Administrator will issue or deny the permit in accordance with
   the requirements of Part 70.

   304.4. If the Administrator does not object in writing under § 304.3, any
   person that meets the requirements of this subsection may petition the
   Administrator within sixty (60) days after the expiration of the
   Administrator&#8217;s forty-five (45) day review period to make the objection.
   Any petition shall be based only on objections to the permit that the
   petitioner raised with reasonable specificity during the public comment period
   provided for in § 303.10, unless the petitioner demonstrates that it was
   impracticable to raise the objections within that period, or unless the
   grounds for the objection arose after such period. If the Administrator
   objects to the permit as a result of a petition filed under this paragraph,
   the Mayor shall not issue the permit until the Administrator&#8217;s objection
   has been resolved, except that a petition for review does not stay the
   effectiveness of a permit or its requirements if the permit was issued after
   the end of the forty-five (45) day review period and prior to the
   Administrator&#8217;s objection. If the Mayor has issued a permit prior to
   receipt of the Administrator&#8217;s objection under this paragraph, the
   Administrator shall modify, terminate, or revoke the permit, and shall do so
   consistent with the procedures in § 303.7 except in unusual circumstances,
   and the Mayor may thereafter issue only a revised permit that satisfies the
   Administrator&#8217;s objection. In any case, the source will not be in
   violation of the requirement to have submitted a timely and complete
   application.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 8105, 8144 (November 19, 1993).
