                                  DC REGULATIONS

PUBLIC BENEFITS CASES &#8211; HEARINGS AND EVIDENCE (§ 1-2976)

2976.1. At each hearing, the Administrative Law Judge shall decide the order
   in which the parties will present their cases.
   
   
   
   2976.2 	If a party who requests a hearing fails to attend the hearing without
   good cause, the Administrative Law Judge may dismiss the case without
   prejudice.  “Good cause” includes, but is not limited to: serious illness,
   an accident, a childcare problem, severe weather conditions, or other
   emergency.
   
   
   
   2976.3 	If the agency or service provider whose action or inaction is being
   challenged fails to attend the hearing, the Administrative Law Judge may rule
   in favor of the person who requested the hearing.
   
   
   
   2976.4 	In a SNAP (formerly Food Stamps) Intentional Program Violation case,
   the Government must prove its case even if the other party fails to attend the
   hearing.
   
   
   
   2976.5 	Parties shall have the following rights at a hearing:
   
   
   
   	(a)	To testify and to have other witnesses testify for them;
   
   
   
   	(b) 	To cross-examine witnesses called by another party;
   
   
   
   (c)	To request that any prospective witness be excluded from the courtroom;
   
   	(d) 	To examine all exhibits offered into evidence by another party;
   
   
   
   	(e)	To object to the admission of any testimony or other evidence;
   
   
   
   	(f) 	To subpoena witnesses, as provided in Section 2974; and
   
   
   
   	(g) 	To appear with a representative, as provided in Section 2972.
   
   
   
   2976.6 	At a hearing, all parties may present evidence.  “Evidence”
   includes testimony by the parties and any witnesses that a party may present. 
   Evidence also includes documents, photographs, or any other items that a party
   believes may help the Administrative Law Judge decide the case.  The
   Administrative Law Judge shall decide what evidence becomes part of the
   record.
   
   
   
   2976.7 	At least five (5) calendar days before the hearing date, each party
   shall file with OAH a list of witnesses and copies of any documents,
   photographs, or other items that the party wants the Administrative Law Judge
   to consider at the hearing.  Copies must be sent to the other party in the
   following manner:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any agency or service provider must send copies to all other parties;
   
   
   
   (b)	If an individual is represented by a person other than a family member,
   the representative shall send copies to all other parties;
   
   
   
   (c)	If a shelter makes free copying services available to a shelter resident,
   the shelter resident must make and deliver a copy to the shelter director;
   
   
   
   (d) 	For all other individuals, OAH will deliver copies by interagency mail to
   the appropriate agency.
   
   
   
   2976.8 	If anything is not filed according to the requirements of Subsection
   2976.7, and the other party shows that it has been prejudiced, the
   Administrative Law Judge shall have the discretion to set a new hearing date
   to allow the other party to prepare.
   
   
   
   2976.9 	If any party demonstrates that it has been prejudiced by the
   unexpected appearance of a witness, the Administrative Law Judge shall have
   the discretion to set a new hearing date to allow the other party to prepare
   for the witness testimony.  If a witness was named on the witness list in the
   manner provided in Subsection 2976.7, the Administrative Law Judge shall find
   that there has been no prejudice.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 2009, 2014 (March 17, 2006); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 12541, 12589
   (December 31, 2010).
