                                  DC REGULATIONS

PUBLIC BENEFITS CASES &#8211; BEGINNING A CASE (ยง 1-2971)

2971.1 	A person can request a hearing in writing, in person, or by telephone.
   
   
   
   2971.2 	Hearing request forms shall be available at OAH, at all service
   centers of the Department of Human Services, at the Department of Health Care
   Finance, at the District Department of the Environment, and at the Division of
   Early Childhood Education at the Office of the State Superintendent of
   Education.

   2971.3. A hearing request must describe the type of benefits and the action or
   inaction to which the person objects.  The request also must contain the name,
   address, and telephone number of the person requesting a hearing;
   
   
   
   2971.4 	A person may bring, mail, or fax a written hearing request to:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Department of Human Services;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Department of Health Care Finance for a hearing concerning Medicaid,
   Healthcare Alliance, or other healthcare programs administered by the District
   of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (c)	The District Department of the Environment for a hearing concerning Low
   Income Home Energy Assistance Program benefits (LIHEAP);
   
   
   
   (d)	A shelter or other service provider for a hearing under the Homeless
   Services Reform Act;
   
   
   
   (e)	The Division of Early Childhood Education at the Office of the State
   Superintendent of Education for a hearing concerning child care benefits; or
   
   
   
   (f)	OAH.
   
   
   
   2971.4 	To request a hearing in person, a person may come to:
   
   
   
   		(a) 	 A Department of Human Services service center;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The Department of Health Care Finance, for a hearing concerning Medicaid,
   Healthcare Alliance, or other healthcare programs administered by the District
   of Columbia;
   
   (c) 	The District Department of the Environment, for a hearing concerning Low
   Income Home Energy Assistance Program benefits (LIHEAP);
   
   
   
   (d) 	The Division of Early Childhood Education at the Office of the State
   Superintendent of Education, for a hearing concerning child care benefits; or
   
   
   
   (e)	OAH.
   
   2971.5 	To request a hearing by telephone, a person may call:
   
   		 		(a)	The Department of Human Services;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The Department of Health Care Finance, for a hearing concerning Medicaid,
   Healthcare Alliance, or other healthcare programs administered by the District
   of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Division of Early Childhood Education at the Office of the State
   Superintendent of Education; or
   
   
   
   (d)	OAH.
   
   
   
   2971.6 	If the Government receives a written hearing request, it must file the
   request with OAH within three (3) calendar days of receiving it.
   
   
   
   2971.7 	If the Government receives an oral or telephone hearing request, it
   must prepare and file a hearing request form with OAH within three (3)
   calendar days of receiving the request.
   
   
   
   2971.8 	If OAH receives a written hearing request from an individual, it will
   send the request to any agency or service provider whose decision is being
   challenged.
   
   
   
   2971.9 	If OAH receives an oral or telephone hearing request from an
   individual, it will complete a written summary of the request and send it to
   any agency or service provider whose decision is being challenged.
   
   
   
   2971.10 	The Department of Human Services can request a hearing concerning a
   claim that a SNAP (formerly Food Stamps) recipient should be disqualified from
   receiving benefits due to an intentional program violation by filing a hearing
   request form approved by the Chief Administrative Law Judge.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 2009, 2011 (March 17, 2006); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 12541, 12585
   (December 31, 2010).
