                                  DC REGULATIONS

NON-DISCRIMINATION AND EQUITABLE SERVICES (ยง 7-402)

402.1. No person shall, on the grounds of race, color, religion, national
   origin, sex, age, marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation,
   family responsibilities, physical handicap, matriculation, political
   affiliation or belief be discriminated against, or denied employment as a
   participant, administrator, staff-person, in connection with any program under
   the Act, except that where the Act specifies or limits the age range of the
   eligible population.

   402.2. YES, the Department, Contractors, Vendors, Recipients, Sub-Recipients
   under the Act shall comply with the following laws:
   
   
   
   (a)	Human Rights Law, Title 34 of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	Titles VI, VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Equal Pay Act;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Rehabilitation Act;
   
   
   
   (e)	Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Other applicable non-discrimination laws.

   402.3. All programs, to the maximum extent feasible, shall contribute to the
   elimination of sex stereotyping. YES, in planning its program activities,
   shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Recruit for, and encourage, female entry, through such means as training,
   into occupations with skill shortages where women represent less then
   twenty-five percent (25%) of the labor force;
   
   
   
   (b)	Recruit for, and encourage, male entry, through such means as training,
   into occupations with skill shortages where men represent less than
   twenty-five percent (25%) of the labor force; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Contribute to the maximum extent feasible to the removal of barriers to
   the mobility of the handicapped.

   402.4. No person shall be denied training or employment in any program because
   of artificial barriers to employment.

   402.5. YES shall analyze and re-evaluate job descriptions and qualification
   requirements at all levels of employment, including civil service requirements
   and practices relating thereto, with a view toward removing artificial
   barriers to employment.

   402.6. Where tests or selection procedures have an adverse impact on any race,
   sex, or national origin group, the tests or selection procedures shall be
   validated as to job relatedness.

   402.7. Tests or selection procedures which have been validated shall not be
   considered to be an artificial barrier to employment.

   402.8. YES shall establish procedures to ensure against discrimination and
   foster equal employment opportunity.

   402.9. YES shall assign EEO responsibility to an individual or staff, or if
   this is not practicable, explain why in the Master Plan.

   402.10. Members of the eligible populations shall be provided maximum feasible
   opportunities for employment in the administration of programs, including
   staff positions in which they will have opportunities for occupational
   training and career advancement.

   402.11. YES shall make special efforts to recruit and hire staff which will
   reflect the make-up of the population of the area by age, race, sex and
   national origin, and shall take corrective action if staff composition varies
   significantly from this goal.
