                                  DC REGULATIONS

INVESTIGATIONS AND COMPLAINTS (ยง 7-415)

415.1. Investigations may be initiated upon the request of any person,
   organization or by the Department on its own initiative.

   415.2. Complaints may be brought by any individual or organization including,
   but not limited to, program participants, employers, contractors, staff of the
   employer, applicants for participation, labor unions, and community based
   organization.

   415.3. With the exception of complaints alleging fraud, forgery or other
   criminal activity, the filing of a complaint shall be made within ten (10)
   days of the alleged occurrence.

   415.4. Participants shall be provided upon enrollment into YES employment or
   training, a written description of the complaint procedures, including
   notification of their right to file a complaint and instructions on how to do
   so.

   415.5. The complaint resolution procedure shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Opportunity to file a complaint. All complaints shall be in writing;
   
   
   
   (b)	Opportunity for informal resolution of the complaint;
   
   
   
   (c)	Written notification of an opportunity for a hearing when an informal
   resolution has not been accomplished. This notice shall state the procedures
   for requesting a hearing and shall describe the elements in the hearing
   procedures including those set forth in ยง415(f);
   
   
   
   (d)	Opportunity to amend the complaint prior to a hearing;
   
   
   
   (e)	Opportunity for a hearing pursuant to ยง415(f) within twenty (20) days of
   filing the complaint; and
   
   
   
   (f)	A final written decision to the complaint which shall be made within
   thirty (30) days of the filing of the complaint and shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The reason(s) for the decision; and
   
   
   
   (2)	A statement that the procedures delineated in this section have been
   completed.

   415.6. A hearing, when requested, shall be provided within twenty (20) days
   after filing a complaint. The hearing procedure shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing, the manner in
   which it will be conducted, and the issues to be decided;
   
   
   
   (b)	Opportunity to withdraw the request for hearing in writing before the
   hearing;
   
   
   
   (c)	Opportunity to request rescheduling for good cause;
   
   
   
   (d)	Opportunity to be accompanied by a representative;
   
   
   
   (e)	Opportunity to bring witnesses and documentary evidence;
   
   
   
   (f)	Opportunity to have relevant documents produced by YES or its components;
   
   
   
   (g)	Opportunity to question witnesses;
   
   
   
   (h)	The right to an impartial hearing officer selected by the YES Director;
   and
   
   
   
   (i)	A written decision from the hearing officer, which shall include a summary
   of facts, rationale for the decision and a statement or remedies to be
   applied.

   415.7. Appeals from decisions of the Hearing Officer may be filed with the YES
   Director.

   415.8. Whenever the YES Director receives a request for an investigation or a
   complaint it shall be investigated if it alleges that any person, participant,
   employer or contractor is failing to comply with the requirements of the Act,
   a derivative agreement, these regulations, or appropriate local or federal
   laws and regulations.

   415.9. The investigations shall be completed and conclusion made within twenty
   (20) days after the request is filed.

   415.10. The YES Director may not allow more than twenty (20) additional days
   if additional time is needed to complete the matter.

   415.11. No extension shall relieve the Hearing or Investigation Officer from
   making his or her final determination within forty (40) days after the filing
   of a complaint or request for investigation.

   415.12. If the YES Director, Hearing or Investigation Officer determines that
   a complaint, an investigation or testimony involves criminal activity which
   may violate the laws of the District of Columbia, the United States or other
   jurisdiction, the determination shall be communicated directly to the Director
   of the Department by the Director of YES for action by the appropriate law
   enforcement agency.

   415.13. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	YES from requiring that a system of grievance processing and a just
   adjudication of complaints be implemented by employers for the use of
   participating youth; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Participating youth from filing a complaint or request for investigation
   with the Office of the Director.

   415.14. Records of all investigations, hearings, complaints, and requests for
   investigation shall be maintained in the Office of the Director of YES.
