                                  DC REGULATIONS

MONITORING PROCEDURES AND INDEPENDENT SUMMER YOUTH EMPLOYMENT EVALUATION UNIT
(YEEU) (ยง 7-414)

414.1. As part of its internal program management procedures, YES shall
   establish a monitoring unit which shall be independent of, and not accountable
   to any unit being monitored. This unit shall report to the YES Director to
   ensure adequate monitoring coverage and appropriate action of findings and
   recommendations.

   414.2. Organizationally, the YEEU shall be positioned to assure its
   objectivity, and to facilitate its access to information necessary to
   discharge its responsibilities without conflict of interest.

   414.3. The Youth Employment Evaluation Unit (YEEU) shall monitor and review
   all program activities, services, program administration and management and
   fiscal practices supported with funds disbursed under the Act.

   414.4. Areas to be monitored include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Review of systems controlling program administrations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Control, maintenance and computational systems for time, attendance, pay
   records and fiscal operations to ensure efficiency and prevention of abuse;
   
   
   
   (c)	Inspection of worksites and worksite conditions;
   
   
   
   (d)	Reviewing plans, procedures and contractor/employer&#8217;s capability to
   carry out programs and activities; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Monitoring contractor/employer maintenance of records on all expenditures
   of appropriated funds;

   414.5. The Youth Employment Evaluation Unit (YEEU) shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Make recommendations to the YES Director for corrective action whenever it
   identifies non-compliance with the Act, relevant contracts and agreements,
   worksite agreement, local, federal or other applicable regulations:
   
   
   
   (b)	Document its monitoring and review activities, the findings resulting
   there from and any recommendations made for corrective action; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Maintain records of the Department&#8217;s and YES replies to its
   monitoring reports and recommendations.

   414.6. The YES Director shall review all monitoring reports submitted by the
   YEEU, acknowledge receipt thereof and respond to the YEEU with respect to the
   action taken as planned in response to YEEU recommendations.

   414.7. The YES Director may require contractors/employer&#8217;s to establish
   certain monitoring procedures, including a Youth Employment Evaluation Unit to
   ensure compliance with the following terms:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Act and this chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	The provisions of relevant sub-agreements; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Relevant local, federal laws and ordinances.

   414.8. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting the
   monitoring and review of any component of the YES Program by the Director, his
   or her designee(s), or the Youth Employment Evaluation Unit.
