                                  DC REGULATIONS

THEFT, EMBEZZLEMENT, IMPROPER INDUCEMENT, OBSTRUCTION OF INVESTIGATION AND OTHER
CRIMINAL PROVISIONS (ยง 7-422)

422.1. Any individual who works with any agency or employer in any capacity
   and receives monies, funds, assets or property under the Act shall be subject
   to the full prosecution and penalties of the laws or policies of the
   Government of the District of Columbia, its law enforcement agencies or any
   other appropriate agency or jurisdiction, and may be held criminally liable
   under any applicable local, state or federal law, if it is determined that the
   agency or employer did any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Knowingly hired an ineligible individual or individuals, embezzled,
   willfully mis-applied, stole or obtained by fraud any of the monies, funds,
   assets, or property under the Act;
   
   
   
   (b)	Refused to renew employment or threaten dismissal of a person from
   employment;
   
   
   
   (c)	Induced any person to give up any money or thing of value to another
   person; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Willfully obstructed or impeded, or endeavored to obstruct or impede, an
   investigation or inquiry under the Act or these regulations.

   422.2. Individuals may not directly or indirectly promise any employment,
   position, compensation, contract appointment or other benefit, provided for or
   made possible in whole or in part by funds under the Act.

   422.3. Individuals may not directly or indirectly promise any special
   consideration in obtaining any benefits to any person as consideration, favor
   or reward for any political activity or for the support of, or opposition to,
   any candidate or any political party in connection with any general or special
   election with any primary election or political convention or caucus held to
   select candidates for any political office.

   422.4. Individuals may not directly or indirectly knowingly cause or attempt
   to cause any person to make a contribution of a thing of value (including
   services for the benefit of any candidate or any political party, by means of
   the denial or deprivation of any employment or benefits funded under the Act).

   422.5. YES shall establish and use internal program management procedures
   sufficient to prevent fraud and program abuse.

   422.6. Each recipient, contractor, vendor, sub-recipient, program component
   shall ensure that sufficient, auditable, and otherwise adequate records are
   maintained with support and record the expenditure of all funds under the Act.

   422.7. The records shall be sufficient to allow the YES Director, the Youth
   Employment Evaluation Unit, and other appropriate agency to audit and monitor
   the respective programs and shall include the maintenance of the management
   information system.
