                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 7-499)

499.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
   ascribed:
   
   
   
   Academic Credit &#8211; for education, training or work experience applicable
   toward a secondary school diploma, post secondary degree or accredited
   certificate of completion consistent with applicable laws, policies, and
   requirements of an accredited educational agency or institution.
   
   
   
   Act &#8211; Youth Employment Act of 1979 (D.C. Act 3-146) approved November 9,
   1979.
   
   
   
   Artificial Barriers to Employment &#8211; limitations (age, sex, race,
   national origin, parental status, credential requirements, criminal record,
   lack of child care, physical or mental status and absence of part-time or
   alternative working patterns/schedules) in hiring, firing, promotion,
   licensing, and conditions or employment which are not directly related to an
   individual&#8217;s fitness or ability to perform the tasks by the job.
   
   
   
   Community Based Organization &#8211; a private non-profit organization which
   is representative of the community or a significant segment of a community,
   and which the Department, a recipient or a sub-recipient pays for property,
   services, supplies, materials or equipment.
   
   
   
   Contract &#8211; a procurement instrument by which the department, a
   recipient, or a sub-recipient pays for property, services supplies, materials
   or equipment.
   
   
   
   Contractor &#8211; any person, corporation, partnership, public agency, or
   other entity which enters into a contract with the DES, a recipient or
   sub-recipient under the Act.
   
   
   
   Department &#8211; the District of Columbia Department of Employment Services
   (DOES), including its agencies and organizational units.
   
   
   
   Employing Agency &#8211; any public or private profit or non-profit employer
   which employs youth participants and which establishes and maintains the
   standards applicable to those participants covering such areas as wages rates,
   fringe benefits, job titles, and employment status.
   
   
   
   Entry Level &#8211; the lowest position in any promotional line, as defined
   locally by D.C. Personnel regulations, past practices, and collective
   bargaining agreements.
   
   
   
   Family &#8211; one (1) or more persons living in a single residence who are
   related to each other by blood, marriage or adoption. A step-child or a
   step-parent shall be considered to be related by marriage. The following
   description applies:
   
   
   
   (a)	For purposes of this chapter, one (1) or more persons not living in single
   residence but who were claimed as a dependent on another person&#8217;s
   Federal Income Tax return for the previous year shall be presumed, unless
   otherwise demonstrated part of the other person&#8217;s family; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Whether living in the residence or not, a handicapped individual who is
   sixteen (16) years of age or older may be considered a family of one (1) when
   applying for programs under the Act.
   
   
   
   Handicapped Individual &#8211; any person who has a physical or mental
   disability which constitutes a substantial barrier to employment and can
   benefit from YES Services.
   
   
   
   In-school youth &#8211; a person fourteen (14) to twenty-one (21) who meets
   the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is currently enrolled full-time in and attending a secondary, trade,
   technical, vocational school or junior or community college or is scheduled to
   attend full-time the next regularly scheduled quarter or semester of any of
   these schools;
   
   
   
   (b)	Has not completed high school and is scheduled to attend or is attending,
   on a full-time basis, a program leading to a secondary school diploma or its
   equivalent. Full-time may be defined by the requirements of the agency
   administering the program.
   
   
   
   Participant &#8211; an individual who is as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Declared eligible upon intake; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Receiving employment, training or services (except post-termination
   services) funded under the Act following intake.
   
   
   
   Placement &#8211; the act of securing employment for or by a participant.
   
   
   
   Public Assistance &#8211; Federal, State or Local Government cash payments for
   which eligibility is determined by a need or income test.
   
   
   
   Recipient &#8211; person, firm, organization, private for profit or non-profit
   enterprise, which receives funds from the Department and YES to perform
   substantive work or provide services under the Act (employment, training,
   supportive services, etc.).
   
   
   
   YES &#8211; Youth Employment for the Summer, Office of the District of
   Columbia Department of Employment Services (DC-DOES), authorized to implement
   the provisions of the Youth Employment Act of 1979, ยง2(a)(1) Summer Youth
   Jobs Programs.
