                                  DC REGULATIONS

DRIVERS LICENSE ENDORSEMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS (§ 18-1313)

1313.1. The following driver’s license endorsements shall be displayed on a
   driver’s license in order for the driver to operate certain types of motor
   vehicles or to operate motor vehicles hauling certain types of cargo:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Double/Triple Endorsement is required to operate a vehicle designed to
   pull more than one (1) trailer;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Transport Passenger Endorsement is required to operate a vehicle that
   transports more than fifteen (15) passengers;
   
   
   
   (c)	The School Bus Endorsement is required to operate a school bus or a
   multi-purpose school vehicle;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Tank Vehicle Endorsement is required to operate a vehicle that is
   designed to transport any liquid or gaseous material within a tank that is
   either permanently or temporarily attached to the vehicle or the chassis. The
   vehicles include, but are not limited to, cargo tanks and portable tanks, as
   defined in 39 CFR part 171. However, this definition does not include portable
   tanks having a rated capacity under one thousand (1,000) gallons;
   
   
   
   (e)	The Hazardous Material Endorsement is required to operate a vehicle
   transporting a hazardous material that is required to be placarded under the
   District of Columbia Hazardous Materials Transportation and Motor carrier
   Safety Act of 1988, effective March 16, 1989 (D.C. Law 7-190; D.C. Official
   Code § 8-1401 et seq.), or by the U.S. Secretary of Transportation in
   accordance with the Hazardous Material Transportation Act, approved January 3,
   1975 (88 Stat. 2156; 49 U.S.C. § 1801 et seq. and 49 CFR part 383, § 121);
   
   
   
   (f)	The Motorcycles Endorsement is required on a Class “A,” Class “B,”
   Class “C,” or Class “D” driver’s license to permit the licensee to
   operate a motorcycle in addition to the class of vehicles designated on the
   driver’s license;
   
   
   
   (g)	The Class “A” Commercial Driver’s Instruction License Endorsement is
   required with a Class “B,” Class “C,” or Class “D” driver’s
   license to permit the licensee to operate a Class “A” vehicle if
   accompanied by the holder of a Class “A” driver’s license;
   
   
   
   (h)	The Class “B” Commercial Driver’s Instruction License Endorsement is
   required with a Class “C” or Class “D” driver’s license to permit
   the licensee to operate a Class “B” vehicle if accompanied by the holder
   of a Class “A” or Class “B” driver’s license; and
   
   
   
   (i)	The Class “C” Commercial Driver’s Instruction License Endorsement is
   required with a Class “D” driver’s license to permit the licensee to
   operate a Class “C” vehicle if accompanied by the holder of a Class
   “A,” Class “B” or Class “C” driver’s license.

   1313.2. The following chart shows the symbols to be used for endorsements that
   shall appear on the driver’s license to authorize driving of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	[Repealed]
   
   
   
   (b)	“H” – vehicles transporting hazardous materials;
   
   
   
   (c)	“T” – vehicles towing double and triple trailers;
   
   
   
   (d)	“P” – vehicles carrying passengers;
   
   
   
   (e)	“N” – tanker vehicles;
   
   
   
   (f)	“S” – school buses;
   
   
   
   (g)	“X” – a combination of the hazardous materials and tanker vehicle
   endorsements; and
   
   
   
   (h)	“M” – motorcycles in addition to class of vehicles designated on
   driver’s license.

   1313.3. The following restrictions shall be displayed on a driver’s license
   to specify special conditions under which a driver may operate a motor
   vehicle:
   
   
   
   (a)	Must wear glasses or contact lenses;
   
   
   
   (b)	May not operate a vehicle with air brakes;
   
   
   
   (c)	May not operate vehicles for compensation prior to age eighteen (18);
   
   
   
   (d)	Must be accompanied by driver who is authorized to operate class of
   vehicle being driven;
   
   
   
   (e)	May not operate Class “A,” “B” or “C” vehicles in interstate
   commerce;
   
   
   
   (f)	Valid only when presented with official document noting special driving
   conditions; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Valid only when presented with a valid medical card; and
   
   
   
   (h)	May not operate tractors and semi-trailers.

   1313.4. The Director, or his or her designee, may modify the endorsements and
   restrictions in § 1313 when deemed necessary to implement this chapter.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 10913 (November 26, 2004); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 4023 (April 22, 2005); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 10071 (July 12, 2013).
