                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROCEDURES FOR LICENSING ACTIONS (§ 18-1314)

1314.1. Before issuing an initial or renewal commercial driver’s license or
   reissuing a commercial driver’s license with a change of classification,
   endorsement, or restriction, the Department shall check the driving record of
   the applicant for the last ten (10) years as maintained by the Department or
   by any other jurisdiction which has issued an operator’s license to the
   applicant.
   
   
   
   (a)	Within twenty-four (24) hours before issuing or reissuing the license, if
   the applicant does not currently possess a valid commercial driver’s license
   issued by the District of Columbia;  or
   
   
   
   (b)	Within ten (10) days before issuing or reissuing the license, for all
   other applicants.

   1314.2. No person shall be issued a renewed commercial driver’s license
   until his or her driving record has been checked through the operator of the
   Commercial Driver’s License Information System in the time period set forth
   in section 1314.1 to determine the status of his or her commercial driving
   privileges in any other jurisdiction.

   1314.3. No person shall be issued a commercial driver’s license until his or
   her driving record, as maintained by the current jurisdiction of issuance, has
   been checked through the operator of the National Driver Register, and other
   information systems, in the time period set forth in subsection 1314.1, to
   check the status of his or her non-commercial driving privileges in any other
   jurisdiction. The information shall be considered in determining whether to
   issue a commercial driver’s license.

   1314.4. Within thirty (30) days after receiving a request from the operator of
   the Commercial Driver License Information System (CDLIS) or a driver licensing
   agency of another jurisdiction for records or other information related to an
   applicant or driver, the Department shall provide to CDLIS or the driver
   licensing agency of the other jurisdiction all requested records and
   information maintained by the Department that are related to the applicant or
   driver.

   1314.5. No later than ten (10) days after disqualifying a commercial
   driver’s license holder licensed by another jurisdiction, or revoking,
   suspending, or canceling the privilege of a commercial driver’s license
   holder licensed by another jurisdiction to operate a commercial motor vehicle
   in the District of Columbia, the Department shall notify the operator of the
   Commercial Driver’s License Information System and the jurisdiction that
   issued the license of the disqualification, revocation, suspension, or
   cancellation and the underlying violation that led to the disqualification,
   revocation, suspension, or cancellation.

   1314.6. If a person who holds a commercial driver’s license issued by
   another jurisdiction is convicted of a violation of a federal or District law
   or regulation relating to motor vehicle traffic control (other than a parking
   violation), in any type of vehicle, the Department shall notify the licensing
   entity in the jurisdiction where the driver is licensed of the conviction
   within ten (10) days after the conviction.

   1314.7. Whenever a person who does not hold a commercial driver’s license,
   but who is licensed to drive by another State, is convicted of a violation in
   a commercial motor vehicle of any law relating to motor vehicle traffic
   control (other than a parking violation), the Department shall notify the
   licensing entity in the State where the driver is licensed of this conviction
   as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Beginning on September 30, 2005, the notification will be made within
   thirty (30) days of the conviction.
   
   
   
   (b)	Beginning on September 30, 2008, the notification will be made within ten
   (10) days of the conviction.

   1314.8. The Department shall make driver record information available as
   required by 49CFR § 225(c).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 10913 (November 26, 2004); as
   amended by as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 2206 (March 24,
   2006); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10912,
   10914 (November 19, 2010).
