                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 24-1299)

1299.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the following meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Commercial property – all taxable real property other than vacant land zoned
   for residential use, residential garages, and any improved property used
   primarily for residential dwelling purposes, including detached dwellings,
   semi-detached dwellings, row dwellings, flats, residential condominiums,
   cooperatives, and apartments.
   
   
   
   Director – the Director of the District Department of Transportation.
   
   
   
   Downtown Urban Renewal Area &#8211; the area as adopted by the National
   Capital Planning Commission and approved by the Council of the District of
   Columbia on July 5, 1983.
   
   
   
   Historic District &#8211; an area of the District of Columbia listed on the
   National Register of Historic Districts or proposed by the D.C. Historic
   Review Board to be so listed. The boundaries of each historic district shall
   be as described in the National Register, except that where the historic
   district encompasses only a part of a specific street, the whole street shall
   be considered part of the historic district for the purpose of this chapter.
   
   
   
   Lay-by – a designated paved area located at the side of a main roadway and
   protruding beyond the gutter into the sidewalk area where vehicles can stop
   temporarily to pick-up or drop-off passengers.
   
   
   
   Parking lane – the area of street, alongside the curb, where motor vehicles
   may lawfully park.
   
   
   
   Pedestrian &#8211; a person traveling by foot or by wheelchair.
   
   
   
   Sidewalk &#8211; the paved areas abutting a street or alley that are intended
   for the use of pedestrians and which are under the jurisdiction of the
   District of Columbia government.
   
   
   
   Substantial rehabilitation – the rehabilitation of an existing building when
   the estimated cost of the rehabilitation, as determined for the building
   permit, is fifty percent (50%) or more of the value of the building as shown
   in the records of the District of Columbia Office of Tax and Revenue.
   
   
   
   Travel lane &#8211; a roadway lane for the movement of vehicles traveling from
   one destination to another.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 1522, 1523 (March 15, 1985); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16852 (December 13, 2013).
