                                  DC REGULATIONS

PERMITS (§ 1-1401)

1401.1. Any person or organization desiring to use a public area of a public
   building or grounds or any room designated for occasional public use by the
   Building Manager, Facility Management Division (“FMD”), Office of Property
   Management, shall first obtain a permit from the Building Manager.

   1401.2. The applicant shall submit to the Building Manager, FMD, a copy,
   sample, or description of any materials or items proposed for distribution or
   display and a written statement setting forth the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The full name, mailing address, and telephone number of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (b)	The full name, mailing address, and telephone number of the person or
   organization sponsoring, promoting, or conducting the proposed activities;
   
   
   
   (c)	The full name, mailing address, and telephone number of the individual
   person or persons who will have supervision of and responsibility for the
   activity;
   
   
   
   (d)	A description of the proposed activity;
   
   
   
   (e)	The proposed dates and hours during which the activity is to be carried
   out; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The approximate number of persons to be engaged in this activity if known.

   1401.3. If the proposed activity will involve the solicitation of donations,
   the applicant shall submit a signed statement that:
   
   
   
   (a)	The applicant is a representative of, and will be soliciting funds for the
   sole benefit of, a religion or religious group; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The applicant’s organization has received an official ruling of
   tax-exempt status from the Internal Revenue Service under 26 U.S.C. § 501, or
   has applied for such a ruling and that application is still in process.

   1401.4. If the applicant claims to represent an organization, a letter or
   other documentation shall be required showing that the applicant has authority
   to represent the organization.

   1401.5. The Building Manager, FMD, shall not issue a permit for any of the
   following activities:
   
   
   
   (a)	Soliciting alms unless a statement has been filed that complies with §
   1401.3;
   
   
   
   (b)	Commercial or political soliciting;
   
   
   
   (c)	Vending, of all kinds, except to D.C. Government groups and organizations;
   
   
   
   (d)	Displaying or distributing commercial advertising; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Collecting private debt.

   1401.6. Applications shall be filed during regular working hours in the
   Facility Management Division or such other place as may be designated.
   Applications may be submitted by mail or in person.

   1401.7. A single permit shall be issued within ten (10) days following receipt
   of the completed application by the Building Manager, FMD, as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Each permit shall authorize the permittee to conduct the activity for the
   period of time requested; provided that a permit shall not be issued for a
   period of time in excess of thirty (30) calendar days, unless specifically
   approved by the Administrator, FMD. After the expiration of the permit, a new
   permit may be issued to the former permit holder upon submission of a new
   application. In such a case, applicants may be permitted to incorporate by
   reference any required information or documentation filed with a previous
   application; and
   
   
   
   (b)	If permits are requested for the same public area for the same time
   period, the Building Manager, FMD, shall issue permits on a
   first-come-first-serve basis.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 1316-18 (February 17, 1989).
   
   
   
   	EDITOR’S NOTE: The Bureau of Facility Management (BFM), Buildings
   Management Administration (BMA), referenced in this chapter in earlier
   editions of Title 1 of the District of Columbia Municipal Regulation, was
   formerly a component of DAS. Subsequent to the transfer of real property
   management functions from DAS to OPM, the BFM, BMA has been redesignated the
   Facility Management Division. Therefore, all prior references in this chapter
   to the Bureau of Facility Management (or BFM) or Buildings Management
   Administration (or BMA) have been replaced with Facility Management Division
   (or FMD) and the Office of Property Management (or OPM), respectively. Other
   technical changes made to this chapter include the substitution of “Building
   Manager, FMD” for “Chief, BMD” and “Administrator, FMD” for
   “Associate Director, BMA.”
