                                  DC REGULATIONS

FAILURE TO ANSWER THE NOTICE OF INFRACTION (ยง 16-3105)

3105.1. If a respondent fails to answer an NOI within fifteen (15) days of
   date of service, the Director shall issue and serve upon respondent a second
   NOI, in a form prescribed by the Director.

   3105.2. A second NOI shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the respondent;
   
   
   
   (b)	An identification of the NOI to which the respondent has failed to respond
   in a timely manner, and the amount of the fine and penalty for such failure to
   respond;
   
   
   
   (c)	Notification of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	That the respondent is subject to a penalty equal to the amount of the
   fine because of the respondent&#8217;s failure to respond to the initial NOI
   in a timely manner, unless the respondent shows good cause for the failure to
   respond to the NOI in a timely manner;
   
   
   
   (2)	That the respondent has a right to a hearing to show good cause for the
   failure to respond to the NOI in a timely manner and that, if the ALJ
   determines that there is good cause, the respondent has a right to a hearing
   on the infraction;
   
   
   
   (3)	That, if the respondent fails to pay the fine and penalty or request a
   hearing within fifteen (15) days of the date of service of the second NOI the
   following shall occur:
   
   
   
   (A)	The penalty for failure to answer in a timely manner shall increase to
   twice the amount of the initial fine and the respondent&#8217;s license or
   permit may be suspended; and
   
   
   
   (B)	The respondent shall be required to appear at a hearing to show cause why
   the respondent&#8217;s license or permit should not be suspended for such
   failure to make timely payment or request a hearing;
   
   
   
   (4)	That the respondent has no right to adjudication of the infraction by
   mail; and
   
   
   
   (5)	That the acceptable forms of payment are as follows:
   
   
   
   (A)	Cash, which is not acceptable by mail; or
   
   
   
   (B)	A personal check, company check, certified check, cashier&#8217;s check,
   postal money order, or bank money order payable to the order of the District
   of Columbia Treasurer; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any other information that the Director may require.

   3105.3. A second NOI signed by the Director shall be prima facie evidence that
   the respondent has not answered the initial NOI in a timely manner.

   3105.4. A second NOI shall be served and answered in the same manner as an
   initial NOI, with the following exceptions:
   
   
   
   (a)	If a respondent admits the infraction, the respondent is required to
   include payment of the penalty, in addition to the fine, with the answer;
   
   
   
   (b)	Respondent has no right to adjudication of the infraction by mail; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Respondent has no right to a hearing on the infraction unless the
   respondent shows good cause for the failure to timely answer the initial NOI.
   To show good cause, a respondent shall request a hearing in the manner
   provided by ยง3103 within fifteen (15) days of the date the second NOI is
   served. Upon a showing of good cause, an ALJ may either proceed to consider
   the infraction or require the respondent to request another hearing on the
   infraction.

   3105.5. A respondent who fails to answer a second NOI within fifteen (15) days
   of service:
   
   
   
   (a)	Shall have no right to a hearing on the infraction unless the respondent
   establishes good cause for the failure to answer; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Shall be required to appear at a hearing to show cause why the
   respondent&#8217;s license or permit should not be suspended for such failure
   to answer.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 5718, 5723 (September 4, 1987).
