                                  DC REGULATIONS

STANDARD OFFER SERVICE RETAIL RATES (§ 15-4103)

4103.1. The retail rates to SOS customers of the Electric Company will consist
   of the sum of the following components:
   
   
   
   (a)	The seasonally-differentiated and, if applicable, time-of-use
   differentiated load weighted average price of all awarded contracts for
   Wholesale Full Requirements Service for each SOS Customer Group;
   
   
   
   (b)	Retail charges designed to recover, on an aggregate basis, FERC-approved
   Network Integrated Transmission Service charges (“NITS”) and related
   charges and any other PJM charges and costs incurred by the Electric Company
   directly related to the Electric Company’s SOS load obligation for each SOS
   Customer Group.  According to Commission Order No. 12395 and the
   PEPCO/Conectiv merger Settlement Agreement, the Electric Company has agreed to
   accept a “transmission deadband” which would adjust transmission and
   distribution rates so that the overall rates remain constant, unless
   transmission rates increase or decrease more than ten (10) percent.  Any
   future increase in transmission rates will be constrained by the
   “transmission deadband” provision approved in Order No. 12395;
   
   
   
   (c)	An administrative charge; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Applicable taxes.

   4103.2. When the winning wholesale bidder(s) are selected, the Electric
   Company shall submit to the Commission (1) the names of the winning bidders,
   which shall remain confidential subject to Section 4110.5 of this chapter, and
   (2) the retail rates for all the customer classes according to the Commission
   pre-approved time schedule.  Such rates shall consist of all the components
   included in Section 4103.1.  The filing required herein shall also include (1)
   a detailed calculation and explanation of an administrative charge and (2)
   administrative charge true-up provisions.

   4103.3. Parties to the proceedings can file comments within seven (7) days
   calendar days and reply comments within 12 calendar days of the Electric
   Company’s submission of the retail rates and administrative charge pursuant
   to Section 4103.2.  The Commission shall thereafter issue an Order approving
   or rejecting the retail rates and/or administrative charge.  The Electric
   Company shall file a revised tariff setting forth the new retail rates and/or
   administrative charges within seven (7) calendar days of the Commission’s
   Order approving those rates and charge.

   4103.4. The Administrative Charge will be designed to recover the Electric
   Company’s incremental costs for procuring and providing the service.  Actual
   incremental costs shall include, but not be limited to, a proportionate share
   of SOS customer uncollectibles for each SOS Customer Group, Commission
   Consultant expenses (as described in Section 4108.2), wholesale bidding
   expenses, working capital expenses related to SOS for each SOS Customer Group,
   wholesale supply transaction costs related to wholesale supplier
   administration and transmission service administration, wholesale payment and
   invoice processing, incremental billing process expenses, customer education
   costs, incremental system costs, and legal and regulatory filing expenses
   related to SOS requirements.

   4103.5. Prior to the submission of bids, the Electric Company shall file a
   request with the Commission (with notice to all the Parties) for determination
   of the appropriate amount of its Administrative Charge to be included in the
   retail rates to SOS customers.  In calculating the Administrative Charge, any
   return component on the Administrative Charge, if the inclusion of a return
   component is approved by the Commission, shall not be reflected for ratemaking
   purposes in the establishment of the Electric Company’s distribution rates,
   including the determination of the Electric Company’s return for providing
   distribution service.

   4103.6. All customers eligible for SOS will be informed of the applicable SOS
   retail rates, to the extent practical, for the service at least two (2) months
   prior to the beginning of each service year.  If it is not practicable to
   provide such notice, the Electric Company shall file with the Commission and
   serve upon the Parties notice of that fact, the reasons for the delay, and the
   expected date for the provision of such information.

   4103.7. Retail prices to customers shall be adjusted at least twice a year to
   reflect seasonal pricing and other appropriate price changes.  Prior to each
   year of SOS, the Electric Company shall file with the Commission, estimates of
   actual incremental costs for the upcoming year.  Such costs will be collected
   from customers, on a load weighted average, subject to an annual adjustment to
   reflect actual costs.

   4103.8. All investment, revenue and expenses associated with the provision of
   SOS by the Electric Company shall be separate from investment, revenues and
   expenses associated with the Electric Company’s distribution service so that
   there will be no subsidization of the Electric Company’s distribution rates.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		Source: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 5404, 5408 (July 3, 2009).
