                                  DC REGULATIONS

MARKET MONITOR CONSULTANT (§ 15-4109)

4109.1. The Consultant RFP is the document to be issued to hire the
   Commission’s Market Monitoring Consultant (“Consultant”).  The Electric
   Company shall procure and pay for an independent consultant hired pursuant to
   the Consultant RFP.  The Consultant shall be responsible for monitoring all
   aspects of the procurement of the SOS services.  Specifically:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Consultant shall be selected by, shall take its direction from, and
   shall provide its consultation and work products to, the Commission.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The costs incurred by the Electric Company in hiring the Consultant may be
   included in the Electric Company’s incremental costs and may be recovered
   through the Administrative Charge, subject to Commission review and approval.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Consultant shall provide the Commission and the Office of People’s
   Counsel with a final report as to each supply procurement and award.
   
   
   
   (d)	The Commission will determine the qualifications of and evaluate all
   bidders.  The Commission will further direct the Electric Company, in writing,
   as to which bidder to award a contract for consulting service and the terms
   and conditions of that contract with the exception of the terms and conditions
   specifically described in this Section.  The Electric Company will execute the
   contract with the Consultant no later than four (4) weeks prior to the date of
   the initial pre-bid conference.  The Electric Company will be required to pay
   only for work that the Consultant does in reviewing the Electric Company’s
   compliance with Section 4104 and any other work that the Commission asks the
   Consultant to perform.
   
   
   
   (e)	The contract term for the contract between the Electric Company and the
   consultant shall be for one-year, with an option to extend the contract for
   two (2) additional one-year terms.  The option(s) shall be exercised by the
   Commission in its sole discretion; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Prior to the expiration of the initial contract awarded under this
   section, the second and subsequent consultant services contracts shall be
   awarded and administered consistent with Sections 4109.1(a)-(e) herein.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		Source: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 5404, 5419 (July 3, 2009).
