                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 15-4199)

4199.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the following meaning:
   
   
   
   “Aggregator” means a person who acts on behalf of customers to purchase
   electricity by organizing customers into a single purchasing unit.
   
   
   
   “Availability of Standard Offer Service” means the Standard Offer Service
   available on and after the initial implementation date to: (1) customers who
   contract for electricity with an electricity supplier, but who fail to receive
   delivery of electricity under such contracts; (2) customers who cannot arrange
   to purchase electricity from an electricity supplier; and (3) customers who do
   not choose an electricity supplier.
   
   
   
   “Commission” means the Public Service Commission of the District of
   Columbia.
   
   
   
   “Competitive Electricity Supplier” means person, including an aggregator,
   broker, or marketer, who generates electricity; sells electricity; or
   purchases, brokers, arranges, or markets electricity for sale to retail
   customers.  The term excludes the following: (A) Building owners, lessees, or
   managers who manage the internal distribution system serving such building and
   who supply electricity solely to occupants of the building for use by the
   occupants; (B) (1) Any person who purchases electricity for its own use or for
   the use of its subsidiaries or affiliates; or (2) Any apartment building or
   office building manager who aggregates electric service requirements for his
   or her building or buildings, and who does not: (a) Take title to electricity;
   (b) Market electric services to the individually-metered tenants of his or her
   building; or (c) Engage in the resale of electric services to others; (C)
   Property owners who supply small amounts of power, at cost, as an
   accommodation to lessors or licensees of the property; and (D) A consolidator.
   
   
   
   “Distribution Customer Class” means the tariffed rate class under which a
   customer takes distribution delivery service from the Electric Company.
   
   
   
   “Electric Company” means the company that provides distribution service.
   
   
   
   “Fitch” means Fitch Ratings.
   
   
   
   “Investment Grade” means a BBB- or Baa3 credit rating with S&#038;P or
   Moody’s respectively; provided, that if the Electric Company’s credit
   ratings by S&#038;P and Moody’s are not equivalent, the lower of the credit
   ratings shall govern for purposes of these rules.
   
   
   
   “Moody’s” means Moody’s Investor Services, Inc.
   
   
   
   “Network Integrated Transmission Service” or “NITS” “is the
   transmission service provided pursuant to the rates, terms, and conditions set
   forth in the PJM tariff.
   
   
   
   
   
   “PJM” means the Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Maryland Interconnection, LLC, or
   any successor thereto.
   
   
   
   “Retail Access” means the right of electricity suppliers and consumers to
   use and interconnect with the electric distribution system on a
   nondiscriminatory basis in order to distribute electricity from any electric
   supplier to any customer. Under this right, consumers shall have the
   opportunity to purchase electricity supply from their choice of licensed
   electricity suppliers.
   
   
   
   “S&#038;P” means the Standard &#038; Poor’s Rating Group (a division of
   McGraw-Hill, Inc.).
   
   
   
   “Slamming” means the unauthorized switching of a customer’s Electricity
   Supplier.
   
   
   
   “Standard Offer Service” means electricity supply made available to: (1)
   Customers who contract for electricity with an electricity supplier, but who
   fail to receive delivery of electricity under such contracts; (2) Customers
   who cannot arrange to purchase electricity from an electricity supplier; and
   (3) Customers who do not choose an electricity supplier.
   
   
   
   “Standard Offer Classes” means the customer groupings within the Electric
   Company’s utility service territory as specified in Section 4102.3 of this
   chapter.
   
   
   
   “Tranche” means a round of bidding for a set of bid blocks for each
   customer group—Residential, Small Commercial, and Large Commercial.
   
   
   
   “Wholesale Standard Offer Service Provider(s)” means the entity(ies)
   selected pursuant to this chapter to provide all or a specified portion of
   electric generation service to consumers receiving Standard Offer Service.
   
   
   
   “Wholesale Full Requirements Service” means all necessary energy delivered
   to the PJM grid, capacity, transmission other than Network Integrated
   Transmission Service, ancillary services, energy losses from transmission and
   distribution, and congestion management, as all these services are defined
   pursuant to the PJM tariffs and procedures.
   
   
   
   “Wholesale Full Requirements Service Agreement” is the document that will
   specify the terms and conditions that govern the contractual relationship
   between the Electric Company and each of the wholesale suppliers that is
   awarded a contract pursuant to the bidding procedures specified in the RFP.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Source: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 5404, 5422 (July 3, 2009).
