                                  DC REGULATIONS

BID DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION PROVIDED BY THE ELECTRIC COMPANY TO POTENTIAL
BIDDERS (§ 15-4108)

4108.1. The Request For Proposal (“RFP”) is the document pursuant to which
   the Electric Company shall solicit Wholesale Full Requirements Service to meet
   its SOS obligations.  The RFP shall include the bid request process, the bid
   evaluation methodology, the timeline for the RFP process, and the following
   five appendices:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Expression of Interest Form;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Confidentiality Agreement;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Credit Application;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Bid Form Spreadsheets; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Binding Bid Agreement.
   
   
   
   4108.2 	The Electric Company shall provide to potential SOS bidders the
   following actual and historical information for the thirty-six (36) months
   preceding the month in which the data is to be submitted to the Commission. 
   The Electric Company shall provide such data on its RFP website on a date to
   be specified by the Commission.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Monthly and hourly demand, energy consumption and load profile data, as
   defined by the Commission, aggregated for each SOS customer class.  For Large
   Commercial customers, if an individual customer’s load data will be
   disclosed, customer written consent is required;
   
   
   
   (b)	Number of customers in each SOS customer class and the number of customers
   taking SOS within each customer class;
   
   
   
   (c)	Representative load shapes for each of the Electric Company’s profile
   group and sub-groups by month, provided that if an individual customer’s
   load shape will be disclosed, written customer consent is required;
   
   
   
   (d)  	Hourly delivery data;
   
   
   
   (e)  	Billing determinants on electronic spreadsheets;
   
   
   
   (f)  	System losses; and
   
   
   
   (g) 	Other information as determined by the Commission to be necessary or
   useful to wholesale bidders.

   4108.3. The general requirements and conditions for information submitted by
   the Electric Company to potential SOS bidders are as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Aggregate data: All information required to be provided by Section 4108.3
   shall be provided on an aggregate class basis.  Individual customer
   information shall not be provided without the customer’s written consent.
   
   
   
   (b)	Historic Data Period: All information provided will reflect usage during
   the most recent thirty-six (36) month period.  Information describing factors
   that would cause the information to be unrepresentative of electricity usage
   during the SOS period shall also be provided.
   
   
   
   (c)	Due Care; Corrections: The Electric Company shall use due care in
   compiling the required information with the understanding that bidders will be
   relying on the data to formulate SOS bids.  The Electric Company shall have
   the duty to correct any inaccuracies promptly upon discovery.
   
   
   
   (d)	Affiliated Interests: The Electric Company shall not provide any
   information to an affiliated competitive provider that is not provided to all
   potential SOS bidders.  The Electric Company must comply with the code(s) of
   conduct adopted by the Commission.
   
   
   
   (e)	Electronic Form; Standard Software: The Electric Company shall provide all
   information in electronic form usable by standard personal computer software
   packages; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Scope and Format: The Commission will determine the scope and detail of
   the information required by Sections 4108.2, 4108.3(a), 4108.3(b), and
   4108.3(e).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		Source: Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 5404, 5417 (July 3, 2009).
