                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION[COLON] RESERVED PARKING SPACE (§ 18-2703)

2703.1. Each application for a reserved on-street parking space pursuant to §
   2710, shall be made on a form furnished by the Director. Each applicant shall
   first have been qualified or requalified for special license tags or a special
   parking permit since the effective date of this chapter.

   2703.2. Each application for a reserved space shall state the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Applicant’s full true and legal name;
   
   
   
   (b)	Date of birth;
   
   
   
   (c)	Social security number;
   
   
   
   (d)	Occupation;
   
   
   
   (e)	Residential address, including zip code;
   
   
   
   (f)	Ward;
   
   
   
   (g)	Home and office telephone number; and
   
   
   
   (h)	A brief description of applicant, including but not limited to,
   applicant’s sex, height, weight, color of eyes, and color of hair.

   2703.3. Each application for a reserved space shall provide specific
   information relative to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Applicant’s place of residence;
   
   
   
   (b)	Availability of off-street parking at or in proximity to the residence;
   
   
   
   (c)	Inability to utilize alternative modes of transportation;
   
   
   
   (d)	Accessibility of parking in vicinity of applicant’s residence; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Other information as may be required by the Director.

   2703.4. Each application shall contain a licensed physician’s assessment of
   the applicant’s degree of immobility which precludes the utilization of
   alternative modes of transportation, or the inability to utilize parking, if
   available, in vicinity of applicant’s residence.

   2703.5. Each application shall indicate in feet, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The distance from applicant’s residence to the nearest available off
   &#8211; street parking;
   
   
   
   (b)	The maximum distance the applicant can reasonably be expected to ambulate
   or to propel a wheelchair; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Environmental conditions which affect utilization of the available
   parking, including terrain and weather.

   2703.6. Each applicant for a reserved parking space shall have the completed
   application notarized.

   2703.7. Upon receipt of an application for a reserved parking space pursuant
   to this chapter, the Director shall cause public notice of the pending request
   to be published in the District of Columbia Register. A copy of the notice
   shall at the same time be mailed to the applicant’s Advisory Neighborhood
   Commissioner. The Commissioner shall have a period of thirty (30) days within
   which to comment on the pending request.

   2703.8. The Director shall make an assessment of the availability and
   accessibility of off-street parking at applicant’s residence or in the
   nearby vicinity, and the applicant’s inability to utilize alternative modes
   of transportation.

   2703.9. In considering any application for a reserved space under this
   section, the Director may gather information from any source deemed necessary
   and appropriate to assist in making a determination to approve or deny an
   application.
