                                  DC REGULATIONS

PATIENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES (ยง 29-6411)

6411.1. Each provider participating in the Demonstration Project shall develop
   a written statement of patient rights and responsibilities consistent with the
   requirements of this section, which shall be given to each recipient in
   advance of receiving services or during the initial enrollment before the
   initiation of services.

   6411.2. The written statement of patient rights and responsibilities shall be
   available for distribution to the general public.

   6411.3. Each provider participating in the Demonstration Project shall develop
   policies that ensure that each recipient receiving services has the following
   rights:
   
   
   
   (a)	To be treated with courtesy, dignity, and respect;
   
   
   
   (b)	To control his or her own household and lifestyle;
   
   
   
   (c)	To participate in the planning of his or her care and treatment;
   
   
   
   (d)	To receive treatment, care, and services consistent with the plan of care
   and to have the plan of care modified, as necessary, for achievement of
   outcomes;
   
   
   
   (e)	To receive services by competent personnel who can communicate with the
   patient;
   
   
   
   (f)	To refuse all or part of any treatment, care, or service and be informed
   of the consequences thereof;
   
   
   
   (g)	To be free from mental and physical abuse, neglect, and exploitation from
   persons providing services;
   
   
   
   (h)	To be assured that for purposes of record confidentiality, the disclosure
   of the contents of the patient&#8217;s records is subject to all the
   provisions of applicable District and federal laws and regulations;
   
   
   
   (i)	To voice a complaint or grievance regarding treatment or care, lack of
   respect for personal property by persons providing services without fear of
   reprisal; and
   
   
   
   (j)	To have access to his or her records.

   6411.4. Each recipient shall be responsible for the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Treating all provider personnel with respect and dignity;
   
   
   
   (b)	Providing accurate information when requested;
   
   
   
   (c)	Informing provider personnel when instructions are not understood or
   cannot be followed;
   
   
   
   (d)	Cooperating in making a safe environment for care within the home; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Notifying the provider of changes in address, insurance, and other
   personal information.

   6411.5. Each provider shall take appropriate steps to ensure that each
   recipient, including patients who cannot read or have a language or
   communication barrier, has received the information required pursuant to this
   section in a format designed to make the information understandable. Each
   provider shall document in the recipient&#8217;s treatment record the steps
   taken to ensure that each patient has received the information.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 5605 (May 28, 2004)
   [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 7435 (July 30,
   2004).
