                                  DC REGULATIONS

TREATMENT OF RECORDS (ยง 29-6410)

6410.1. Each provider shall maintain accurate records reflecting treatment,
   evaluation, and management services. The record for each recipient shall
   include, but is not limited to, the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	General information including the patient&#8217;s name, address, date of
   birth, demonstration recipient identification number, telephone number, and
   telephone number of emergency contact person;
   
   
   
   (b)	Medical information, including medical and social history, results of the
   initial physical examination, and any other follow-up exams;
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of any tests ordered and their results;
   
   
   
   (d)	Initial certification and annual re-certifications;
   
   
   
   (e)	Plan of care;
   
   
   
   (f)	A description of treatment and follow-up care, including the dates of
   scheduled revisits;
   
   
   
   (g)	Recommendations for and referrals to other sources of care;
   
   
   
   (h)	Bill of Rights and Responsibilities;
   
   
   
   (i)	Signed and dated progress notes, which identify the services provided;
   
   
   
   (j)	Evidence of written consent to treatment or documentation of refusal to
   consent to any treatment, evaluation, or management services; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Documentation of the treatment, evaluation, and management of each
   determination of an emergency medical condition.

   6410.2. Each provider shall allow designated personnel of the DOH, HAA, and
   other authorized agents of the District of Columbia government and the federal
   government full access to the records for audit purposes.

   6410.3. All providers shall maintain for a period of six (6) years a complete
   copy of the recipient&#8217;s treatment record.

   6410.4. Each recipient&#8217;s treatment record shall include written
   documentation of the recipient&#8217;s treatment needs and services. The
   documentation shall be written so that it is easily understood by a lay
   person.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 5605 (May 28, 2004)
   [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 7435 (July 30,
   2004).
