                                  DC REGULATIONS

LESSEE RESPONSIBILITIES (§ 14-6500)

6500.1. Lessees shall be responsible for their actions and the actions of
   household members, guests, and any person under the Lessee’s control or on
   the Leased Premises with Lessee’s consent, for maintaining their units in
   accordance with the provisions of the dwelling lease, including but not
   limited to, the following responsibilities:
   
   
   
   (a)	To comply with all obligations imposed upon Lessees by applicable
   provisions of building, and other District of Columbia housing codes
   materially affecting health and safety;
   
   
   
   (b)	To keep the premises (and such other areas as may be assigned for his or
   her exclusive use) in a clean and safe condition;
   
   
   
   (c)	To dispose of all ashes, garbage, rubbish, and other waste from the
   premises in a sanitary and safe manner;
   
   
   
   (d)	To use only in a reasonable manner all electrical, plumbing, sanitary,
   heating, ventilating, air conditioning and other facilities and appurtenances,
   including elevators;
   
   
   
   (e)	To refrain from, and to cause his or her household, guests and others, to
   refrain from, destroying, defacing, and/or damaging/removing any part of the
   premises or project; including but not limited to storing, hanging or leaving
   household or other personal property of any type, including clothes, on the
   exterior of the Leased Premises unless the area is specifically designated for
   that purpose by DCHA;
   
   
   
   (f)	Not to assign the lease or to sublease the premises;
   
   
   
   (g)	Lessee shall have no other primary residence;
   
   
   
   (h)	Not to provide accommodations for boarders or lodgers;
   
   
   
   (1)	Each guest shall not stay overnight for more than ten (10) consecutive
   days without the prior written permission of DCHA;
   
   
   
   (2)	Each guest shall not stay overnight for more than thirty (30)
   non-consecutive days within a twelve (12) month period without the prior
   written permission of DCHA; and
   
   
   
   (3)	DCHA may deny permission for longer stays for the following reasons;
   
   
   
   (i)	Persons who have been barred from the property;
   
   
   
   (ii)	Persons who are on a lifetime sex offender list;
   
   
   
   (iii)	Persons fleeing prosecution or custody or confinement after conviction
   for a crime or attempt to commit a crime that is a felony under the laws of
   the place from which the individual flees;
   
   
   
   (iv)	Persons whose past conduct has disturbed the peaceful enjoyment of DCHA
   residents;
   
   
   
   (v)	Persons who have damaged DCHA property; and
   
   
   
   (vi)	Persons with current restraining orders to stay away from the unit or the
   property;
   
   
   
   (i)	To use the premises solely as a private dwelling for the Lessee and the
   Lessee’s household as identified in the lease, and not to use or permit its
   use for any other purpose;
   
   
   
   (j)	To abide by necessary and reasonable rules, regulations and policies,
   issued by DCHA for the benefit and well-being of the housing project and the
   Lessees and which shall be posted in the Development office and incorporated
   by reference in the lease;
   
   
   
   (k)	To pay reasonable charges (other than normal wear and tear) for the repair
   of damages to the premises, project building, facilities or common areas
   caused by the Lessee, household members, guests and any others under the
   Lessee’s control or on the Leased Premises with Lessee’s consent;
   including but not limited to, any individuals occupying or using the Leased
   Premises for any purpose with actual or implied consent of the Lessee
   (hereinafter referred to collectively as “others”);
   
   
   
   (l)	To conduct himself or herself, and cause other persons who are on the
   premises with his or her consent to conduct themselves, in a manner which will
   not disturb his or her neighbors peaceful enjoyment of their accommodations
   and will be conducive to maintaining the project in a decent, safe and
   sanitary condition; including but not limited to:
   
   
   
   (1)	Take precautions to prevent fires and not use a portable heating device
   unless it has been provided by DCHA. Not disable any fire alarm device or
   cause a false fire alarm, or generally permit or do anything, including
   storing excess amounts of personal property; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Not remove or tamper with any smoke detector, including removing any
   working batteries, so as to render the smoke detector inoperative;
   
   
   
   (m)	To keep no dogs, cats or other animals in or on the premises, unless
   specifically permitted by DCHA in writing;
   
   
   
   (n)	Not to place fixtures, or fences in or about the premises without the
   prior written permission of DCHA. No repairs or alterations to the Leased
   Premises may be made, including, but not limited to, painting, wallpapering,
   doors, gates, window bars, carpets, storage sheds, and antenna or satellite
   dishes, without the prior written approval of DCHA. Upon completion, any such
   repairs or alterations, made with or without prior written consent, become
   part of the Leased Premises. If the Lessee changes locks, installs an alarm or
   security system, or adds locks to the dwelling unit, he or she shall notify
   DCHA and shall make duplicate keys available to and or provide DCHA with
   access codes in order for DCHA to gain emergency access; and
   
   
   
   (o)	Not to permit anyone who is currently barred from the Leased Premises or
   Development from occupying, staying overnight, visiting the Leased Premises,
   or inviting them to the Leased Premises or anywhere else on the Development at
   any time for any purpose, unless authorized in writing by DCHA in advance.

   6500.2. At those properties where there is a defined front or rear yard
   assigned to the Lessee for his or her exclusive use, the Lessee shall be
   responsible for maintaining the individually defined lawn areas around his or
   her respective dwelling unit, cutting the grass, and keeping his or her lawn
   free of trash and garbage.

   6500.3. Lessees who do not maintain these areas shall be given forty-eight
   (48) hours notice by DCHA to correct unsightly lawn areas. Lessees who fail to
   comply within forty-eight (48) hours of being notified by DCHA shall be in
   violation of the Dwelling Lease.

   6500.4. Lessees shall report immediately to DCHA of any need for repairs to
   the Leased Premises or of any unsafe conditions in the common areas or the
   grounds surrounding the Leased Premises. Notification of repairs shall be in
   writing or by a telephone call to DCHA’s Control Center and the Lessee shall
   obtain a control number for each repair. The number for the Control Center can
   be obtained from the Management office or the Central Office. Lessees in
   Developments managed by companies under contract with DCHA will provide notice
   as reasonably required by the management companies

   6500.5. Lessees shall take reasonable steps to conserve energy and water and
   avoid unreasonable use of water, gas and/or electricity including but not
   limited to non-routine washing of vehicles or any other unreasonable use of
   utilities.

   6500.6. Lessees shall not have waterbeds on the Leased Premises without prior
   written approval of DCHA, which approval may be withheld in DCHA&#8217;s sole
   discretion.

   6500.7. Lessee&#8217;s shall not to permit anyone who is currently barred from
   the Leased Premises or Development from occupying, staying overnight, or
   visiting the Leased Premises or invite them to the Leased Premises or anywhere
   else on the Development at any time for any purpose, unless authorized in
   writing by DCHA in advance. Any person not identified in Subsection 9600.2 as
   an authorized person may be subject to the issuance of a Bar Notice for the
   period of time specified in the Bar Notice. DCHA will post a list of barred
   individuals in the property management office.

   6500.8. Lessee is responsible for all actions or inactions of all guests,
   household members, and all others on the property with the consent of Lessee
   and/or the consent of household members; &#8220;others&#8221; defined as any
   person under the Lessee&#8217;s control or on the Leased Premises with
   Lessee&#8217;s consent; including but not limited to, any individuals
   occupying or using the Leased Premises for any purpose with actual or implied
   consent of the Lessee (hereinafter referred to collectively as
   &#8220;others&#8221;); the aforementioned parties, including the Lessee, are
   obligated to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	To not engage in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of any alcoholic
   beverages or openly consume alcoholic beverages in any common areas in the
   Development or otherwise consume alcoholic beverages in a manner that impairs
   the physical environment of the Development or may be a threat to the health,
   safety or right to peaceful enjoyment of the Development by other residents,
   service providers, or DCHA staff;
   
   
   
   (b)	To not engage in any criminal activity that threatens residents&#8217;
   health, safety or right to peaceful enjoyment of the Development;
   
   
   
   (c)	To not engage in:
   
   
   
   (1)	Any drug-related criminal activity on or off the Leased Premises or the
   Development; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Violent criminal activity or be in possession of any firearm or ammunition
   for a firearm;
   
   
   
   (d)	Lessee shall not flee to avoid prosecution or custody or confinement after
   conviction, for a crime or attempt to commit a crime that is a felony under
   the laws of the place from which the individual flees or violate a condition
   of probation or parole imposed under federal or state law; or
   
   
   
   (e)	To assure that others under the Lessee&#8217;s control, as identified in
   the Dwelling Lease, not engage in any:
   
   
   
   (1)	Criminal activity that threatens the residents&#8217; health, safety or
   right to peaceful enjoyment of the Development; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Any Drug-related Criminal Activity on the Leased Premises or the
   Development.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: Unless otherwise noted, the authority for this chapter is the
   District of Columbia Alley Dwelling Act, as amended, Public, No. 307, 48 Stat.
   930, approved June 12, 1934; Executive Order 11401, effective March 13, 1968,
   33 F.R. 4559 (March 15, 1968); section 5 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1975,
   21 DCR 2793 (July 3, 1975); and part III.B.(1) of Reorganization Plan No. I of
   1987, December 15, 1987.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 7973, 8024-8026
   (December 26, 1986); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 55
   DCR 12315-20 (December 21, 2007).
   
   
   
   	EDITOR’S NOTE: The rules governing low income housing in the District of
   Columbia which implement the District of Columbia Alley Dwelling Act of 1934
   were originally adopted by the Director of the District of Columbia Department
   of Housing and Community Development (“DHCD”) acting on behalf the
   National Capital Housing Authority pursuant to Reorganization Plan 3 of 1975.
   See Preamble to Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 7973 (December
   26, 1986). Under Part III.B.(1) of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1987, the
   National Capital Housing Authority was abolished and all of its functions
   under the District of Columbia Alley Dwelling Act of 1934 were transferred to
   the Department of Public and Assisted Housing (“DPAH”). DPAH operated low
   rent housing through the Housing Management Administration (“HMA”). D.C.
   Law 10-243, the “District of Columbia Housing Authority Act of 1994,”
   abolished DPAH and established the District of Columbia Housing Authority
   (DCHA) as a corporate body and legal instrumentality of the government of the
   District of Columbia. Pursuant to D.C. Law 10-243, all of DPAH’s functions
   under the District of Columbia Alley Dwelling Act were transferred to DCHA.
   D.C. Law 13-105, the “District of Columbia Housing Authority Act of 1999,”
   repealed D.C. Law 10-243 and re- established the DCHA as an independent
   authority of the District government and the successor in interest to the
   former housing authority. Accordingly, the acronyms “DHCD,” “DPAH” or
   “HMA” which appeared in chapters 60 through 65 of the July 1991 edition of
   this title have been substituted with “DCHA.”
