                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE SEGREGATION PRIOR TO A HEARING (ยง 28-531)

531.1. Administrative segregation for a resident prior to an adjustment
   hearing or a housing hearing may be ordered only by a Shift Supervisor or
   higher ranking correctional staff member.

   531.2. The Shift Supervisor or higher ranking correctional staff member shall
   not order administrative segregation prior to a hearing for a resident unless
   the official finds that the resident is in danger of a threat to the
   resident&#8217;s personal safety, poses a danger to the safety of others, or
   is a definite escape risk. Confinement shall be in administrative segregation.

   531.3. In determining that the resident is in danger or is a danger to the
   safety of others, the Shift Supervisor shall record, in writing, whether there
   is a security need to separate the resident from a member of the correctional
   staff or from one (1) of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The identifiable victim of an assault;
   
   
   
   (b)	Identifiable witnesses;
   
   
   
   (c)	Identifiable informants; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Another resident who presents a threat of physical harm to the resident.

   531.4. The Shift Supervisor shall also record, in writing, the name(s) of the
   person(s) from whom the resident must be temporarily separated.

   531.5. If disclosing either the name of the individual or any of the evidence
   on which the Shift Supervisor relied in making the determination would, in the
   Shift Supervisor&#8217;s judgment, pose a threat to the safety of a resident,
   correctional officer or other employee of the institution, or cause a riot or
   other major disturbance or significant damage to property, the Shift
   Supervisor shall so state in the written statement.

   531.6. The Shift Supervisor shall specifically describe in the written
   statement the type of information deleted under ยง 531.5, if any.

   531.7. The Shift Supervisor may delete the material designated under ยง 531.5
   from the copy of the written statement given to the resident and the
   resident&#8217;s counsel or substitute counsel.

   531.8. If the Shift Supervisor makes any deletions, the Shift Supervisor shall
   transmit to the Housing Board of the institution a copy of the entire written
   statement.

   531.9. In determining that the resident is a definite escape risk, the Shift
   Supervisor shall consider the following factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	Whether the resident acted with the intent to escape and avoid
   confinement;
   
   
   
   (b)	Whether the resident possessed instruments designed for use in an escape;
   
   
   
   (c)	Whether the resident made statements manifesting an intent to escape;
   
   
   
   (d)	Whether the resident acted voluntarily;
   
   
   
   (e)	Whether the resident has been convicted of prison breach; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Other relevant evidence reasonably showing the resident to be a definite
   escape risk.

   531.10. If the Shift Supervisor or higher ranking correctional staff member
   orders that the resident be placed in segregation prior to a hearing, the
   official shall also note in the written statement, subject to limitations in
   ยง 531.5 relating to confidentiality, the factual basis for the conclusion
   that the resident is in danger, poses a danger to the safety of others, or is
   a definite escape risk.

   531.11. Except in the case of riot or other major disturbance, the only
   circumstance in which a resident may be held in segregation for more than
   three (3) working days prior to a hearing is if the resident requests a
   continuance of the date of the hearing. In this circumstance, the
   resident&#8217;s segregation may continue up to and include the date of the
   hearing.

   531.12. The case of any resident held in segregation prior to a hearing shall
   be advanced ahead of other cases and heard on a priority basis by the
   Adjustment Board or Housing Board.

   531.13. If a resident is held in segregation prior to an adjustment hearing,
   and the Adjustment Board ultimately determines that the resident shall serve
   some period of adjustment segregation, the resident may, in the Adjustment
   Board&#8217;s discretion, receive credit for the time spent in administrative
   segregation prior to the hearing.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 865, 899-901 (February 27, 1981).
