                                  DC REGULATIONS

CLASS III OFFENSES (ยง 28-504)

504.1. The offenses set forth in this section shall be classified as minor
   offenses.

   504.2. The Class III offense of unauthorized use of property of another shall
   be defined as the taking, exercising control over, or otherwise using the
   property of any person without the consent of the owner or other person
   authorized to give consent.

   504.3. The Class III offense of out-of-place or absent at count shall be
   defined as doing any of the following without proper authority:
   
   
   
   (a)	Failing to report as prescribed to an appointed place of duty or
   assignment or any other place to which the resident has been directed to
   proceed by the valid order of a Department employee or institutional
   regulations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Leaving an appointed place of duty or assignment or any other place where
   the resident has been directed to remain by the valid order of a correctional
   officer or institutional regulations; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Being in an unauthorized area.

   504.4. The Class III offense of abuse of privileges shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Willfully violating the provisions of any institutional regulation dealing
   with a privilege. For purposes of this subsection, a &#8220;privilege&#8221;
   shall be defined as any benefit conferred upon the inmate populace by
   institutional regulations; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Taking excess food from the serving line in the dining hall or abusing
   dining privileges.

   504.5. The Class III offense of creating a health, safety, or fire hazard
   shall be defined as activities that create a fire hazard or other situation
   which poses danger to the safety or health of the resident or others.

   504.6. The Class III offense of abuse of living quarters shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Failing to make the resident&#8217;s own bed neatly each day or failing to
   keep the resident&#8217;s own living quarters clean and orderly; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Failing to keep articles issued by the institution or purchased from the
   canteen in lockers, drawers, or other approved places.

   504.7. The Class III offense of disorderly appearance and clothing shall
   include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Failing to keep the resident&#8217;s own clothing and person reasonably
   clean and orderly; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Willfully damaging any article of clothing or other property issued to the
   resident.

   504.8. The Class III offense of willful disobedience of a general order shall
   include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Engaging in loud or boisterous talk, laughter, whistling, or other vocal
   expression if that activity is or may tend to be disruptive of order or a
   disturbance or annoyance to others;
   
   
   
   (b)	Willfully failing to proceed from place to place within the institution in
   a prompt and orderly way; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Approaching or speaking to any visitor other than counsel or substitute
   counsel, unless first authorized to do so by a custodial officer.

   504.9. The Class III offense of disrespect shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Making any profane, obscene, or abusive remark to any employee of the
   Department of Corrections, or other custodial official; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Making a profane, obscene, or abusive remark about an employee or official
   of the Department of Corrections in the presence of that employee or official.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 865, 875-76 (February 27, 1981).
