                                  DC REGULATIONS

REVIEW AND APPEAL (ยง 28-513)

513.1. The Administrator (or the Administrator&#8217;s designee) shall review
   all decisions rendered by the Adjustment Board or by hearing officers.

   513.2. Upon any review or appeal under this section, the decision shall be
   based upon a reasonable assessment of the evidence presented.

   513.3. Upon review, the Administrator may take any of the following actions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Vacate a finding of guilty and all punishment imposed;
   
   
   
   (b)	Reduce the punishment imposed; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Remand the case to the Board or hearing officer for further proceedings,
   as provided in this section.

   513.4. No remand shall be made for the purpose of increasing the severity of
   the punishment imposed by the Board or hearing officer.

   513.5. If the resident was found not guilty at the hearing, the Administrator
   may remand the case for further proceedings only if the Administrator
   determines that the Adjustment Board or hearing officer did any of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Failed or refused to have a witness testify when the Board or hearing
   officer knew that the witness had relevant evidence at the time of the
   hearing; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Failed to consider relevant documentary evidence at the time of the
   hearing which was not made part of the record due to administrative or
   procedural error.

   513.6. If the resident was found not guilty at the hearing, the Administrator
   may not remand the case for further proceedings on either of the following
   grounds:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the Administrator disagrees with the findings of the Board or hearing
   officer concerning the credibility of a witness; or
   
   
   
   (b)	That the Administrator disagrees with the weight given to the testimony of
   a witness by the Board or hearing officer.

   513.7. The Administrator shall complete the review within three (3) working
   days of receiving the written decision and shall promptly notify the resident
   of the completion of the review.

   513.8. If a resident has been found guilty by the Board after a remand in
   accordance with the provisions of ยง 513.5, the resident shall have the right
   to appeal that determination of guilt to the Superintendent.

   513.9. A resident may file an appeal within three (3) working days of
   receiving the decision of the Board or hearing officer by submitting to the
   Administrator a statement in writing concerning any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The procedures followed by the Board or hearing officer;
   
   
   
   (b)	The weight of the evidence against the resident; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The punishment imposed.

   513.10. The Administrator shall decide the appeal within three (3) working
   days of receiving the written statement and shall promptly notify the resident
   of the decision on appeal.

   513.11. In deciding the case on appeal, the Administrator may take any of the
   following actions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Vacate a finding of guilt and all punishments imposed;
   
   
   
   (b)	Reduce the punishment imposed; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Remand the case to the Board or hearing officer for further proceedings.

   513.12. If there is a remand on appeal, the Board or hearing officer shall not
   impose a more severe punishment than was imposed at the original hearing.

   513.13. No punishment may be imposed pending appeal; provided, that a resident
   whose punishment is transfer to more restrictive custody may be placed in
   administrative segregation pending decision on appeal.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 865, 885-87 (February 27, 1981).
