                                  DC REGULATIONS

CLASS II OFFENSES (ยง 28-503)

503.1. The offenses set forth in this section shall be classified as major
   offenses.

   503.2. The Class II offense of bodily injury shall be defined as willfully
   subjecting any person to injury or offensive bodily contact.

   503.3. The Class II offense of homosexual activity shall be defined as
   engaging in physical contact with the genital parts or anus of another person
   of the same sex.

   503.4. The Class II offense of fighting shall be defined as any group of two
   (2) or more residents engaging in a physical altercation leading to the
   exchange of blows or substantial bodily contact.

   503.5. The Class II offense of lack of cooperation shall include any of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Willfully refusing to perform duties assigned or willfully refusing to
   work;
   
   
   
   (b)	Failing to respond to any question or direction of any employee of the
   Department of Corrections or other custodial official; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Willfully disobeying a valid order of a correctional officer or employee.

   503.6. The Class II offense of gambling shall include any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Playing for money or other things of value at any game including, but not
   limited to, those played with cards or dice, or betting and wagering on the
   side or hands of those playing; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Organizing any game of chance, lottery, betting pool, or other wagering
   device.

   503.7. The Class II offense of threatening conduct shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Communicating an avowed present determination of intent to injure another
   person, committing a crime of violence, or committing an unlawful act
   dangerous to human life, presently or in the near future when the probable
   consequence of the threat or threats (whether the consequence in fact occurs
   or does not occur) would be one of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	To place another person in fear of serious bodily injury;
   
   
   
   (2)	To cause evacuation of a building; or
   
   
   
   (3)	To otherwise cause serious disruption or alarm.
   
   
   
   (b)	Willfully compelling or inducing another person to engage in conduct from
   which the latter has a legal right to abstain or to abstain from conduct in
   which he or she has a legal right to engage, by means of instilling in that
   person a fear that, if the demand is not complied with, the accused resident
   or another will do any of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Cause bodily injury to someone;
   
   
   
   (2)	Cause damage to property; or
   
   
   
   (3)	Accuse someone of an offense or cause charges to be instituted against
   someone.

   503.8. The Class II offense of falsifying physical evidence shall include any
   of the following actions based on the knowledge or belief that a disciplinary
   proceeding or an official investigation is pending or about to be instituted:
   
   
   
   (a)	Altering, destroying, concealing, or removing anything with intent to
   impair its authenticity or availability in the proceeding or investigation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Presenting or using anything which the resident knows to be false with
   intent to deceive a correctional officer or anyone who is or will be a member
   of the proceeding or investigation.

   503.9. The Class II offense of lying shall be defined as willfully and
   knowingly making a false statement to a Department employee with intent to
   avoid disciplinary action for violation of an institutional regulation or to
   aid another inmate in avoiding disciplinary action.

   503.10. The Class II offense of possession of contraband shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Possession of any article that has not been issued by the institution,
   purchased from the canteen, or specifically authorized by the Administrator;
   
   
   
   (b)	Use of any article in a manner contrary to the intent or provisions of
   issuance, purchase, or authorization; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Possession of any paper money or coins.

   503.11. The Class II offense of creating a disturbance shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Willfully causing or creating substantial disorder characterized by
   unruly, tumultuous, or raucous conduct (violent or non-violent) which
   substantially disrupts orderly administration or creates an unreasonably
   annoying condition that has a direct tendency to provoke other residents to
   respond by committing an offense against persons, an offense against property,
   or an offense posing a threat to the security and good order of the
   institution; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Willfully creating or causing a disturbance involving violence or the
   concerted action of two (2) or more persons which does not create grave danger
   of injury to persons, damage to property, or substantial disruption of the
   normal functioning of the institution.

   503.12. The Class II offense of giving a false alarm shall be defined as
   willfully communicating a false report concerning a fire, explosion, the
   present commission of an assault, rape, or kidnapping, or other catastrophe to
   cause the evacuation of a building or the correctional staff to respond in
   alarm.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 865, 872-75 (February 27, 1981).
