                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE SEGREGATION AND PROTECTIVE CUSTODY (ยง 28-521)

521.1. Administrative segregation shall be defined as confinement to a control
   cell with limited recreation and privileges, as set forth in this section.

   521.2. Administrative segregation may be used for the following purposes:
   
   
   
   (a)	To hold a resident prior to a housing hearing or adjustment hearing; or
   
   
   
   (b)	To hold a resident in voluntary or involuntary protective custody.

   521.3. Administrative segregation shall also include restrictive confinement
   of a prisoner in any cell of the maximum security facility, or in a control
   cell of the central facility, or in a control cell at Youth Center II, or in
   the protective custody unit of Youth Center I, or in the adjustment unit of
   Youth Center I.

   521.4. Before a resident is placed in any cell of the maximum security
   facility, or in a control cell of the central facility, or a control center at
   Youth Center II, there shall be a finding made that:
   
   
   
   (a)	There is a clear and present threat to the safety of the resident;
   
   
   
   (b)	The resident poses a clear and present threat to the safety of others; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The resident poses a definite escape risk.

   521.5. In order to place a resident in the adjustment unit of Youth Center I,
   there shall be a finding that the resident poses a clear and present danger to
   the safety of others or is a definite escape risk.

   521.6. A resident found to be in need of placement for protective custody in
   Youth Center I may be housed temporarily in the adjustment unit of Youth
   Center I when space is unavailable in the protective custody unit.

   521.7. No resident shall be held in administrative segregation for more than
   three (3) days without a hearing, except as specifically provided in this
   chapter.

   521.8. A resident shall be provided with at least two (2) hours per week
   out-of-cell recreation while placed in administrative segregation; provided,
   that recreation may be restricted because of extraordinary safety and security
   risks.

   521.9. The following privileges shall be afforded to residents placed in
   administrative segregation:
   
   
   
   (a)	Uncensored correspondence;
   
   
   
   (b)	Visitation of one (1) hour per day, five (5) days per week;
   
   
   
   (c)	The right to have items purchased for them from the canteen;
   
   
   
   (d)	Smoking privileges in the cell; provided that this right may be restricted
   for safety reasons;
   
   
   
   (e)	Reading matter;
   
   
   
   (f)	Radios; provided, that this right may be restricted for extraordinary
   safety and security reasons;
   
   
   
   (g)	Work assignments, if available, and if the assignments would not pose
   extraordinary safety or security risks;
   
   
   
   (h)	Education and training programs with the following exceptions:
   
   
   
   (1)	Residents held in pre-hearing administrative segregation; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Any other resident where participation in education and training programs
   would pose an extraordinary safety or security risk.

   521.10. Involuntary protective custody shall be defined as confinement of a
   resident in administrative segregation against the resident&#8217;s will.

   521.11. Voluntary protective custody shall be defined as the placement of a
   resident in administrative segregation at the request of the resident.

   521.12. If a resident in voluntary protective custody provides the Department
   with a written statement that the resident no longer wishes to remain in
   protective custody, the resident shall be released at once from protective
   custody; provided, that a resident who requests release may be placed in
   involuntary protective custody under the provisions of this chapter for
   involuntary placement in protective custody.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 865, 890-92 (February 27, 1981).
