                                  DC REGULATIONS

OPTIONAL SMALL CLAIMS (EXPEDITED) PROCEDURES (ยง 27-215)

215.1. In an appeal where the amount in dispute is ten thousand dollars
   ($10,000) or less, the appellant may elect to have the appeal adjudicated
   under the small claims procedure set forth in this rule, or the accelerated
   procedure in Rule 216.

   215.2. Whenever possible, decisions under the small claims procedure will be
   rendered within ninety (90) days from the date on which the contractor files
   an appeal. The election shall be stated in the notice of appeal, except that
   the Board for good cause may permit the election to be made after the notice
   of appeal is filed. Once the election is made, it may not be withdrawn except
   with the permission of the Board for good cause shown.

   215.3. The following time periods shall apply for cases proceeding as a small
   claims appeal unless otherwise ordered by the Board:
   
   
   
   (a)	Within ten (10) business days of receipt of notice of the
   appellant&#8217;s election, the respondent shall submit to the Board a copy of
   the contract, the contracting agency&#8217;s final decision, and the
   appellant&#8217;s claim letter or letters; other documents from the appeal
   file prescribed in Rule 203.1 shall be submitted as the Board directs.
   
   
   
   (b)	Within fifteen (15) days after the Board has received the
   appellant&#8217;s election, the designated administrative judge shall take the
   following action in an informal meeting or a telephone conference with the
   parties:
   
   
   
   (1)	Formulate and simplify the issues;
   
   
   
   (2)	Establish a simplified procedure appropriate to the appeal;
   
   
   
   (3)	Determine whether either party wants a hearing, and, if so, fix a time and
   place;
   
   
   
   (4)	Require the respondent to furnish any additional documents relevant to the
   appeal; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Establish an expedited schedule for resolution of the appeal.

   215.4. Pleadings, discovery, and other prehearing activity shall be allowed
   only as consistent with the requirement to conduct the hearing on the date
   scheduled, or, if no hearing is scheduled, to close the record on a date that
   will allow decisions within the 90-day limit. The Board, at its discretion,
   may impose shortened time periods for any actions prescribed or allowed under
   these rules as necessary to enable the Board to decide the appeal within the
   time limit.

   215.5. Written decisions by the Board in cases adjudicated under the small
   claims (expedited) procedure shall be short and may contain abbreviated
   findings of fact and conclusions of law. The decisions may be rendered for the
   Board by a single administrative judge. A decision under the small claims
   procedure shall have no precedential value in future cases before the Board.

   215.6. In a case where a small claims procedure has been elected and in which
   there has been a hearing, the administrative judge presiding at the hearing
   may, in the judge&#8217;s discretion, at the conclusion of the hearing and
   after entertaining any oral arguments as deemed appropriate, render on the
   record oral findings of fact, conclusions of law, and a decision of the
   appeal.

   215.7. Whenever an oral decision is rendered pursuant to Rule 215.6, the Board
   shall subsequently furnish the parties with a written copy of the oral
   decision for record and payment purposes, and to establish the starting date
   for the period for filing a motion for reconsideration or a judicial appeal.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
