                                  DC REGULATIONS

THE APPEAL FILE (ยง 27-203)

203.1. Within thirty (30) days of receipt that a notice of appeal has been
   docketed, the contracting agency shall assemble and transmit to the Board an
   appeal file consisting of all documents pertinent to the appeal, including:
   
   
   
   (a)	The decision from which the appeal is taken;
   
   
   
   (b)	The contract, including specifications and pertinent amendments, plans,
   and drawings;
   
   
   
   (c)	All correspondence between the parties relevant to the appeal, including
   the letter or letters of claim in response to which the decision was issued;
   
   
   
   (d)	Transcripts of any testimony taken during the course of proceedings, and
   affidavits or statements of any witnesses on the matter in dispute made prior
   to the filing of the notice of appeal with the Board; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Any additional information considered relevant to the appeal.

   203.2. Within the same thirty (30) day time period, the contracting agency
   shall furnish the appellant a copy of each document submitted to the Board,
   except those in Rule 203.1(b) above. As to the latter, a list furnished
   appellant indicating contractual documents submitted to the Board will
   suffice.

   203.3. Within thirty (30) days after receipt of a copy of the appeal file
   assembled by the contracting agency, the appellant shall transmit to the Board
   any documents or other tangible things not contained therein which are
   considered relevant to the appeal, and shall furnish a copy of each document
   to the attorney representing the contracting agency.

   203.4. The Board may, at any time during the pendency of the appeal, require
   either party to supplement the appeal file or record by filing other documents
   and tangible things.

   203.5. All exhibits in the appeal file shall be considered, without further
   action by the parties, a part of the record upon which the Board will render
   its decision. However, a party may object, for reasons stated, to
   consideration of a particular document reasonably in advance of a hearing, or,
   if there is no hearing, of closing the record. If an objection is made, the
   Board shall remove the document from the appeal file and permit the party
   offering the document to move its admission as evidence.

   203.6. Documents in the appeal file may be originals or legible facsimiles or
   authenticated copies, and shall be arranged in chronological order where
   practicable, numbered sequentially, tabbed, and indexed to identify the
   contents of the file.

   203.7. Original copies of documents may be withdrawn from the appeal file,
   with the Board&#8217;s consent, if an acceptable copy is substituted.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
