                                  DC REGULATIONS

ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (ADR) (§ 27-217)

217.1. Availability of ADR procedures. The Board will make its services
   available for ADR proceedings in contract appeals and protest matters
   involving District agencies.
   
   
   
   (a)	ADR subsequent to docketing of case at the Board. Parties are encouraged
   to consider the feasibility of using ADR as soon as their case is docketed.
   If, however, at any time during the course of a Board proceeding, the parties
   agree that their dispute may be resolved through the use of an ADR technique,
   the presiding judge may suspend proceedings for a reasonable period of time
   while the parties and the Board attempt to resolve the dispute in this manner
   The use of an ADR technique will not toll any relevant statutory time limit
   for deciding the case.
   
   
   
   (b)	Other ADR. Upon request, the Board will make a Board Neutral available for
   an ADR proceeding involving a District agency in any contract, protest, or
   procurement matter at any stage of a procurement, even if no contracting
   officer decision has been issued or is contemplated. To initiate an ADR
   proceeding, the parties shall jointly request the ADR in writing and direct
   such request to the Chief Administrative Judge. The Board will provide ADR
   services on a reimbursable basis.

   217.2. Conduct of ADR.
   
   
   
   (a)	Selection of Board Neutral. If ADR is agreed to by the parties and the
   Board, the parties may request the appointment of one or more Board judges to
   act as a Board Neutral or Neutrals. The parties may request that the Chief
   Administrative Judge appoint a particular judge or judges as the Board
   Neutral, or to appoint any judge or judges as the Neutral. If, when ADR has
   been requested for a case that has already been docketed with the Board, as
   provided in Rule 217.1(a), the parties may request that the presiding judge
   serve as the Board Neutral. In such situation, when the ADR is unsuccessful,
   (i) if the ADR has involved mediation, the presiding judge shall not retain
   the case, and (ii) if the ADR has not involved mediation, the presiding judge,
   after considering the parties&#8217; views, shall decide whether to retain the
   case.
   
   
   
   (b)	Retention and confidentiality of materials. The Board will review
   materials submitted by a party for an ADR proceeding, but will not retain such
   materials after the proceeding is concluded or otherwise terminated. Material
   created by a party for the purpose of an ADR proceeding is to be used solely
   for that proceeding unless the parties agree otherwise. Parties may request a
   protective order in an ADR proceeding in the manner provided in Rule 104.

   217.3. Types of ADR. ADR is not defined by any single procedure or set of
   procedures. The Board will consider the use of any technique proposed by the
   parties which is deemed to be fair, reasonable, and in the best interest of
   the parties, the Board, and the resolution of disputes. The following are
   examples of available techniques:
   
   
   
   (a)	Mediation. The Board Neutral, as mediator, aids the parties in settling
   their case. The mediator engages in ex parte discussions with the parties and
   facilitates the transmission of settlement offers. Although not authorized to
   render a decision in the dispute, the mediator may discuss with the parties,
   on a confidential basis, the strengths and weaknesses of their positions. No
   judge who has participated in discussions about the mediation will participate
   in a Board decision of the case if the ADR is unsuccessful.
   
   
   
   (b)	Neutral case evaluation. The parties agree to present to the Board Neutral
   information on which the Board Neutral bases a non-binding, oral, advisory
   opinion. The manner in which the information is presented will vary from case
   to case depending upon the agreement of the parties. Presentations generally
   fall between two extremes, ranging from an informal proffer of evidence
   together with limited argument from the parties to a more formal presentation
   of oral and documentary evidence and argument from counsel, such as through a
   mini-trial.
   
   
   
   (c)	Binding decision. One or more Board judges render a decision which, by
   prior agreement of the parties, is to be binding and non-appealable. As in the
   non-binding evaluation of a case by a Board Neutral, the manner in which
   information is presented for a binding decision may vary depending on the
   circumstances of the particular case.
   
   
   
   (d)	Other procedures. In addition to other ADR techniques, including
   modifications to those listed above, as agreed to by the Board and parties,
   the parties may use ADR techniques that do no require direct Board involvement
   
   
   
   (e)	Selective use of standard procedures. Parties considering the use of ADR
   are encouraged to adapt for their purposes any provisions in the Board’s
   rules which they believe will be useful. This includes but is not limited to
   provisions concerning record submittal, prehearing discovery procedures, and
   hearings.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
