                                  DC REGULATIONS

PREHEARING PROCEDURES (ยง 27-210)

210.1. The Board may, upon its own initiative, or upon application of either
   party, arrange for a telephone conference or direct the parties to appear
   before the Board at a specified time and place, prior to or during the course
   of a hearing, to consider the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Settlement of part or all of the dispute;
   
   
   
   (b)	The simplification of issues;
   
   
   
   (c)	The necessity or desirability of amending the pleadings;
   
   
   
   (d)	The possibility of obtaining admission of fact and stipulations concerning
   the use of documents to avoid unnecessary proof;
   
   
   
   (e)	The limitation of the number of witnesses;
   
   
   
   (f)	The possibility of prior mutual exchange of prepared testimony and
   exhibits between the parties;
   
   
   
   (g)	A schedule for the completion of discovery, if discovery is deemed
   necessary, and has not been completed; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Any other matters that may aid in shortening the hearing on the merits and
   in the disposition of the appeal.

   210.2. The Board shall make an order or memorandum which shall recite the
   action taken at the conference. This order or memorandum, when filed, shall be
   a part of the record in the appeal and shall control the subsequent course of
   the appeal unless modified by the Board.

   210.3. The Board may, on its initiative or upon application of either party,
   order the parties to file prehearing briefs explaining and analyzing the legal
   issues in any case.

   210.4. Pleadings, discovery, and other prehearing activity shall be allowed
   only as consistent with the requirement to conduct the hearing on the date
   scheduled, or, if no hearing is scheduled, to close the record in a reasonable
   time. The Board, at its discretion, may impose shortened time periods for any
   actions prescribed or allowed under these rules.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
