                                  DC REGULATIONS

WAIVERS (§ 7-1008)

1008.1. The Director may exempt a recipient from the requirements of the Act
   if the waiver is approved by the Council of the District of Columbia.

   1008.2. A recipient requesting a waiver shall submit a signed written
   application to the Director and shall demonstrate that compliance with the Act
   will constitute a significant financial hardship to the recipient that will
   result in either:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A layoff of a significant number of employees;
   
   
   
   (b)	A substantial downsizing of the recipient’s business entity; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The inability of the recipient to meet its payroll.

   1008.3. All applications for waiver shall include the recipient’s name,
   telephone number, and the identity and authority of the individual requesting
   the waiver.  The application shall also identify the name, address, and
   telephone number of any individual or entity that prepared any of the
   financial information submitted in support of the waiver request.  The
   application shall also identify the name, address, and telephone number of any
   subcontractor of the recipient that is subject to the Act and is involved with
   the contract or government assistance for which the waiver is sought.  The
   application shall also contain the number of affiliated employees involved
   with the contract or government assistance.

   1008.4. The Director may require any recipient applying for a waiver to submit
   certified financial or other records that the Director believes may be
   necessary to decide the waiver request, including financial or other records
   not otherwise required by § 1005.

   1008.5. The Director shall decide all waiver requests within thirty (30)
   business days after the submission of the application for waiver or as soon as
   practicable thereafter.  The thirty (30) business day period shall commence on
   the day of the submission of the application for waiver or the date on which
   any final additional requested document is submitted to the Director,
   whichever occurs later.

   1008.6. Submission of a request for waiver shall not relieve the recipient
   from complying with the Act during the time the application for waiver is
   pending.

   1008.7. The Director shall issue a written recommendation or decision on all
   applications which are to be granted.  If the Director does not issue a
   recommendation or decision within the thirty (30) business day period
   established by § 1008.5, the application shall be considered denied.

   1008.8. An application for waiver which is granted by the Director shall not
   be effective unless the waiver is approved by the Council of the District of
   Columbia, by act, as set forth in section 109 of the Act (D.C. Official Code
   § 2-220.09).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2831, 2836 (April 1,
   2011).
