                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 7-1099)

1099.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
   				ascribed:
   
   
   
   Affiliated employee – an employee of a recipient who receives compensation
   either directly from the government contract or assistance or from the
   government funds paid to a subcontractor.  The term “affiliated employee”
   applies to both full-time or part-time employees.  The term “affiliated
   employee” does not apply to employees who perform only intermittent or
   incidental services for the contract.  The term “affiliated employee” does
   not apply to employees of recipients who do not receive compensation directly
   from government funds.
   
   
   
   Contract – a written agreement between a recipient and the District of
   Columbia government or any entity of the District of Columbia government for
   the provision of services.  Where contractual agreements between the District
   of Columbia government and recipients are for the provision of services to
   multiple individuals on an individual basis, and the individual selects the
   service provider, the payments for each individual shall be treated as a
   separate contract for purposes of the Act.
   
   
   
   Director – the Director of the District of Columbia Department of Employment
   Services.
   
   
   
   Disaster – a natural disaster such as a tornado, blizzard, flood, fire,
   earthquake, or epidemic which causes substantial physical damage to the
   District of Columbia, or an economic disaster which results in a substantial
   loss of District of Columbia government revenues for at least three (3)
   consecutive months due to an economic depression, recession, or other downturn
   in the national or local economy.
   
   
   
   Government assistance – a grant, loan, or tax increment financing that is
   received from an agency, commission, instrumentality or other entity of the
   District of Columbia government and results in a financial benefit to a
   recipient.
   
   
   
   Living wage – the minimum hourly wage rate required under the Act, as set
   forth in § 1002.
   
   
   
   Mayor – the Mayor of the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Recipient – an individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture,
   limited liability company, corporation, or any other form of business or
   business entity that enters into a contract with, or receives government
   assistance from the District of Columbia government.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2831, 2837 (April 1,
   2011).
