                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY PROCEDURES (§ 20-401)

401.1. The Mayor shall amend as necessary the Emergency Episode Plan
   containing the procedures necessary to enable him or her, acting alone or with
   the air pollution control agencies of the surrounding jurisdictions, to deal
   effectively with an air pollution emergency.

   401.2. Any proposed amendment to the Emergency Episode Plan shall be submitted
   to the Council of the District of Columbia and shall not take effect unless
   approved by resolution of the Council.

   401.3. Prior to submitting a proposed amendment of the Emergency Episode Plan
   to the Council the Mayor shall hold a public hearing, giving thirty (30) day
   notice of the hearing.

   401.4. The plan shall be kept on file by the Mayor and shall be available for
   public inspection.

   401.5. Whenever the Mayor finds an emergency exists requiring immediate action
   to protect the public health and welfare, the Mayor may, without notice or
   hearing, issue an order that includes the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The basis for the existence of the emergency;
   
   
   
   (b)	The episode stage at which the emergency exists; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The action to be taken to meet the emergency.

   401.6. The Mayor may require the owner or operator of a source of air
   pollution to prepare a written plan for reducing the emission of air pollution
   during an episode stage, according to the guidelines set forth in the
   Emergency Episode Plan.

   401.7. An owner or operator shall have thirty (30) days in which to comply
   with the Mayor&#8217;s request to prepare an individual abatement plan. This
   plan shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The identity of the source of air pollutants; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A brief description of the manner in which the reduction in emissions will
   be achieved during each episode stage.

   401.8. An individual abatement plan shall be approved or disapproved by the
   Mayor within thirty (30) days after it is submitted.

   401.9. Whenever the Mayor determines that an air quality emergency exists, the
   Mayor shall instruct the public on the action to be taken according to the
   Emergency Episode Plan or shall order the public to take whatever action the
   Mayor deems necessary to avert, ameliorate, or end the emergency.

   401.10. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subtitle or any other law,
   if the Mayor determines that a situation exists which is causing or
   contributing to air pollution or could cause or contribute to air pollution so
   as to require immediate action to protect the public health or welfare, the
   Mayor shall take the action necessary to abate the situation. The action shall
   be clothed with the police power and may include, but is not limited to, the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	To order the person(s) to reduce, discontinue, or take the action(s)
   necessary to abate the situation. Each order shall be complied with
   immediately;
   
   
   
   (b)	To impound any source of air pollution equipment in the possession of any
   person;
   
   
   
   (c)	To forbid the operation of any source, machine, device, or equipment.
   Notice of the prohibition shall, if possible, be given to any person who owns,
   possesses, or operates the source, machine, device or equipment. The notice
   shall be complied with immediately; and
   
   
   
   (d)	To enter any premises or property and take any he or she deemed necessary.

   401.11. Any person against whom the Mayor may take an action authorized in §
   401.5 of this subtitle may appeal the order or action to the Mayor. Upon
   appeal, the Mayor shall hold a hearing, if so requested, within a reasonable
   time after receiving the or receipt of the appeal if no hearing is requested,
   the person shall be notified by the Mayor whether the action or order has been
   affirmed, modified, or rescinded; Provided, that the appeal shall not be
   grounds for noncompliance with any order issued under § 401.5 of this
   subtitle.

   401.12. Nothing in this section shall preclude the Mayor from initiating
   appropriate action for the recovery of a penalty as is provided in this
   subtitle, nor shall this section preclude the Mayor from seeking other relief
   or remedy that is provided for by law.

   401.13. The procedures of § 102 of this subtitle shall not apply to this
   section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Section 3 of the District of Columbia Air Pollution Control Act of
   1984, D.C. Law 5-165, § 401, 32 DCR 565, 599 (February 1, 1985).
