                                  DC REGULATIONS

PARKING FOR HISTORIC BUILDINGS (§ 11-2120)

2120.1. This section sets forth the circumstances under which existing and new
   uses in historic resources and additions thereto are exempt from providing
   parking and shall not apply to new unattached structures constructed on the
   same lot as a historic resource.

   2120.2. For the purposes of this section, a historic resource is a building or
   structure listed in the District of Columbia Inventory of Historic Sites or a
   building or structure certified in writing by the State Historic Preservation
   Officer as contributing to the character of the historic district in which it
   is located.

   2120.3. A historic resource and any additions thereto are exempt from the
   requirement of § 2100.4 to provide additional parking as a result of a change
   of use and from the requirement of § 2100.6 to provide additional parking as
   a result of an increase of intensity of use, except that parking shall be
   required for any addition where:
   
   
   
   (a)	The gross floor area of the historic resource is being increased by 50% or
   more, and
   
   
   
   (b)	The parking requirement attributable to the increase in gross floor area
   is at least four (4) spaces.

   2120.4. Any parking provided for a historic resource in excess of that which
   existed at the time the historic resource was listed in the District of
   Columbia Inventory of Historic Sites or the historic district was created
   shall be exempt from § 2115, and §§ 2117.5 and 2117.6.

   2120.5. Parking spaces provided for a historic resource shall be a minimum of
   eight feet (8 ft.) in width and sixteen feet (16 ft.) in length exclusive of
   access drives, aisles, ramps, columns, and office and work areas. All required
   parking spaces shall be clearly striped and lined. Durable all-weather
   materials shall be used. Striping shall be maintained for as long as the
   parking spaces requiring the striping are in existence.

   2120.6. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may grant relief from all or part of
   the parking requirements of this section if the owner of the property
   demonstrates that, as a result of the nature or location of the historic
   resource, providing the required parking will result in significant
   architectural or structural difficulty in maintaining the historic integrity
   and appearance of the historic resource. The Board shall grant only the amount
   of relief needed to alleviate the difficulty proved. The applicant shall also
   demonstrate compliance with the general special exception standard set forth
   in § 3104 and shall address each of the following criteria as part of its
   presentation to the Board:
   
   
   
   (a)	Maximum number of students, employees, guests, customers, or clients who
   can reasonably be expected to use the proposed building or structure at one
   time;
   
   
   
   (b)	Amount of traffic congestion existing and/or that the redevelopment of the
   historic resource can reasonably be expected to add to the neighborhood;
   
   
   
   (c)	Quantity of existing public, commercial, or private parking, other than
   curb parking, on the property or in the neighborhood that can reasonably be
   expected to be available when the redevelopment is complete; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Proximity to public transportation, particularly Metrorail stations, and
   availability of either public transportation service in the area, or a ride
   sharing program approved by the District of Columbia Department of
   Transportation.

   2120.7. Prior to taking final action on an application, the Board shall refer
   the application to the D.C. Department of Transportation for review and
   report.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8959 (September 14, 2007).
