                                  DC REGULATIONS

CODE OF ETHICS (§ 17-8305)

8305.1  A pharmaceutical detailer shall not engage in any deceptive or
   misleading marketing of a pharmaceutical product, including the knowing
   concealment, suppression, omission, misleading representation, or misstatement
   of any material fact. Practices and conduct in compliance with the Food and
   Drug Administration’s laws, regulations, policies and guidelines shall not
   be deemed a violation of this subsection.

   8305.2. A pharmaceutical detailer shall not use a title or designation that
   might lead a licensed health professional, or an employee or representative of
   a licensed health professional, to believe that the pharmaceutical detailer is
   licensed to practice medicine, nursing, dentistry, optometry, pharmacy, or any
   other similar health occupation, in the District of Columbia, unless the
   pharmaceutical detailer holds an active license to practice that health
   occupation.

   8305.3. A pharmaceutical detailer shall not attend patient examinations
   without the express, written consent of the patient.

   8305.4. A pharmaceutical detailer shall not willfully harass, intimidate, or
   coerce a licensed health professional, or an employee or representative of a
   licensed health professional through any form of communication, including
   through the sending of messages of disappointment for the failure to prescribe
   certain medications.

   8305.5. For purposes of § 8305.4, the Board shall use a reasonable person
   standard to determine whether the conduct constitutes willful harassment,
   intimidation, or coercion.

   8305.6. A pharmaceutical detailer shall not continue to make sales calls upon
   a health professional, or an employee or representative of a health
   professional after the health professional prescriber has requested in writing
   to the pharmaceutical detailer or the detailer&#8217;s employer not to receive
   any further sales calls.
   
   
   
   8305.7 	For purposes of § 8305.6, unless the person continuing to make the
   sales calls has
   
   	actual knowledge of the request, a pharmaceutical manufacturer or labeler’s
   
   	employees and representatives will not be deemed to have knowledge of a
   health
   
   	care provider’s request until thirty (30) days after the health care
   provider submits
   
   	the written request to the pharmaceutical detailer or his or her employer.
   
   
   
   8305.8 	A pharmaceutical detailer shall not offer a gift or remuneration of
   any kind to a
   
   	member of a medication advisory committee; except that a pharmaceutical
   detailer may give 	medication samples to a member of a medication advisory
   committee that is also a licensed 	physician engaged in the practice of
   medicine.
   
   
   
   8305.9   A pharmaceutical detailer shall not employ any inducement or
   misleading statements to gain
   
                 access to a healthcare professional.
   
   
   
   8305.10 	A pharmaceutical detailer shall provide information to healthcare
   professionals that is accurate and 	fairly balanced in compliance with FDA
   policy and practices on the provision of information to 	health care
   professionals.  However, nothing in this section shall be construed to require
   a 	pharmaceutical detailer to promote a competitor’s product.
   
   
   
   8305.11 	In addition to the regulations set forth under this section, any
   holder of a license under this chapter 	or any person authorized to practice
   pharmaceutical detailing functions under this chapter shall 	comply with the
   standards of ethical and professional conduct established by the
   Pharmaceutical 	Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) in its
   publication entitled “PhRMA Code on 	Interactions With Healthcare
   Professionals” as it may be amended or republished from time to 	time. 
   Where there is a conflict between this publication and the regulations set
   forth in this 	Chapter or the provisions of the Act, the regulations and/or
   Act shall control.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 9317 (August 29, 2008); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking Published at 56 DCR 2951 (April 17, 2009).
