                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS (ยง 17-8307)

8307.1. The Board may, in its discretion, approve continuing education
   programs that contribute to the growth of an applicant in professional
   competence in the practice of pharmaceutical detailing and which meet the
   other requirements of this section.

   8307.2. The Board may approve continuing education programs that meet the
   requirements of ยง 8307.3 and provide instruction in one of the following
   subjects:
   
   
   
   (a)	General medical and pharmaceutical terminology and abbreviations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Food and Drug Administration laws and regulations pertaining to drug
   marketing, labeling, and clinical trials;
   
   
   
   (c)	The cost-effectiveness of pharmacological treatments;
   
   
   
   (d)	Therapeutic drug classes and categories;
   
   
   
   (e)	Professional ethics;
   
   
   
   (f)	Properties and actions of drugs and drug delivery mechanisms;
   
   
   
   (g)	Etiologies, characteristics, and therapeutics of disease states;
   
   
   
   (h)	Pharmacology; and
   
   
   
   (i)	The anatomical and physiological effect of pharmaceuticals.

   8307.3. To qualify for approval by the Board, a continuing education program
   shall be an educational program given at a conference, a lecture, seminar,
   course of instruction, workshop, or on the Internet, and be prepared, offered,
   or administered by one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A nationally or locally accredited program provider;
   
   
   
   (b)	A governmental unit;
   
   
   
   (c)	A health care facility;
   
   
   
   (d)	A pharmaceutical company; or
   
   
   
   (e)	An institution of higher learning recognized by an accrediting body
   approved by the Secretary of the United States Department of Education.

   8307.4. The Board may issue a list of approved continuing education programs.

   8307.5. An applicant shall have the burden of verifying whether a program is
   approved by the Board pursuant to this section prior to attending the program.

   8307.6. The Board may approve the following continuing education activities by
   an applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Serving as an instructor or speaker at a lecture, conference, seminar,
   workshop, course of instruction, or in-service training; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Publication of an article or book review in a professional journal or
   bulletin or publication of a book or chapter in a book.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 9317 (August 29, 2008).
