                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROHIBITIQNS OF GENDER IDENTITY OR EXPRESSION DISCRIMINATION (ยง 4-801)

801.1. It shall be unlawful for any person or entity, including agencies of
   the District of Columbia government and its contractors, to discriminate
   against a person in employment, housing, public accommodations, or educational
   institutions on the basis of that person&#8217;s actual or perceived gender
   identity or expression. Such unlawful discriminatory practices shall include
   but not be limited to the following in:
   
   
   
   (a)	EMPLOYMENT: failing to hire or promote; engaging in disparate treatment;
   engaging in unlawful termination and transfers; engaging in verbal or physical
   harassment; creation of a hostile environment; failing to make a reasonable
   accommodation when requested by the employee in accordance with 4 DCMR ยง 804
   (1995); and denying access to restrooms and other gender specific facilities
   that are consistent with the employee&#8217;s gender identity or expression.
   
   
   
   (b)	HOUSING AND COMMERCIAL SPACE: refusing to show, rent, or sell real
   property that is available for lease or sale; discriminating in financial
   transactions related to real property; engaging in disparate treatment by
   adding or using different terms or conditions in a lease; refusing to make or
   provide services, repairs, or improvements for any tenant or lessee; denying
   access to restrooms or gender specific facilities in common areas that are
   consistent with an individual&#8217;s gender identity or expression; creating
   a hostile environment; and failing to stop or prevent harassment by
   co-tenants, landlords, or property managers.
   
   
   
   (c)	PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS: refusing to provide goods or services of any kind;
   engaging in disparate treatment in the provision of goods and services;
   engaging in verbal or physical harassment; creating a hostile environment; and
   denying access to restrooms and other gender specific facilities that are
   consistent with a customer&#8217;s or client&#8217;s gender identity or
   expression.
   
   
   
   (d)	EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS: refusing or limiting educational opportunities
   in admission, matriculation, or access to extracurricular activities; engaging
   in disparate treatment of a student; engaging in or failing to prevent verbal
   or physical harassment; creating a hostile environment; and denying access to
   restrooms and other gender specific facilities that are consistent with a
   student&#8217;s gender identity or expression.
   
   
   
   (e)	DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA GOVERNMENT: refusing to provide any facility,
   service, program, or benefit of the District of Columbia government; engaging
   in verbal or physical harassment; creating a hostile environment; and denying
   access to restroom facilities and other gender specific facilities that are
   consistent with a person&#8217;s gender identity or expression.

   801.2. All entities covered under the Act shall clearly and explicitly
   communicate the District of Columbia&#8217;s laws regarding gender identity or
   expression and other protected categories to all management, employees, and
   volunteers as required by D.C. Official Code ยง 2- 1402.51.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 8751, 8752-53 (October 27,
   2006).
