                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 16-399)

399.1. For purposes of this chapter and in addition to the definitions set
   forth in D.C. Official Code ยง 60-601, the following terms and phrases shall
   have the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Amount Credited for any Trade-in &#8211; the figure representing the value
   agreed upon by the dealer and the purchaser for any motor vehicle or other
   personal property tendered by the purchaser, and accepted by the dealer, as
   part payment of the purchase price of any motor vehicle.
   
   
   
   Assign &#8211; any negotiation, sale, conveyance, or transfer in any manner or
   by any form of an instrument of security.
   
   
   
   Automobile repossessor &#8211; any person, including a dealer, seller, sales
   finance company, or person acting under contract as or on behalf of a dealer,
   seller, sales finance company, or automobile repossession business, who takes
   possession of a motor vehicle pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   
   
   
   Cash Sale Price of Vehicle and Equipment &#8211; the total cash price of the
   motor vehicle, accessories and equipment sold to the purchaser before
   deduction of amount credited for any trade-in, and is the amount for which the
   dealer will immediately transfer and assign to the purchaser title to the
   motor vehicle, accessories and equipment free and clear of any lien or
   encumbrance.
   
   
   
   Cash Down Payment &#8211; any cash, other than installments of the time price
   balance, received by the dealer from the purchaser as part payment for a motor
   vehicle, and as payment of any governmental charges required to be collected
   by the dealer.
   
   
   
   Cost of Insurance and Summary of Insurance Coverage &#8211; a statement as to
   each type of coverage; the amount, term and total premium of the insurance
   which is included in the total amount to be paid by the purchaser; the extent
   to which each such type of insurance will protect the interest of the
   purchaser; and the name of the company or broker with whom the insurance has
   been placed or to whom application for the insurance will be made.
   
   
   
   Description of the motor vehicle sold &#8211; the manufacturer&#8217;s trade
   name, model, year and serial number of manufacturer&#8217;s identification
   number of the vehicle sold.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the Department of Consumer and Regulatory
   Affairs, or his or her designated agent.
   
   
   
   Governmental charges &#8211; include, in addition to those charges enumerated
   in the Act of April 22, 1960 (Pub. L. 86-431), notary fees, and any amount
   paid by the dealer for messenger service, not in excess of two dollars and
   fifty cents ($ 2.50), for obtaining and delivering certificate of title and
   identification tags.
   
   
   
   Holder &#8211; any person legally or beneficially entitled to the proceeds of
   the instrument of security.
   
   
   
   Invoice &#8211; an itemized statement of the sale of a motor vehicle. The word
   &#8220;invoice&#8221; also includes a bill of sale.
   
   
   
   Public Sale &#8211; a sale where not less than five (5) days notice has been
   given by a holder to the public specifying where the motor vehicle to be sold
   is located; at what times, within that period, it may be inspected; and by
   what time all bids must be received by the holder in order to be considered in
   the disposal of the vehicle. The notice provided for in this definition shall
   be an advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where
   the property is to be sold. Other motor vehicles may be included in any such
   newspaper advertisement.
   
   
   
   Purchaser or Buyer or Retail Buyer &#8211; a person to whom a dealer has sold,
   traded, exchanged or in any other manner conveyed or transferred legal or
   equitable title to a motor vehicle.
   
   
   
   Sale &#8211; sale, trade, exchange, barter, and any other transaction for a
   consideration which results in the transfer of legal or equitable title to a
   motor vehicle by a dealer to a purchaser.
   
   
   
   Salesperson &#8211; any individual (including without limitation any officer,
   director, partner, or member of a dealer) who either expressly or impliedly
   represents or holds himself or herself out to be employed, engaged, appointed,
   authorized or permitted by any dealer to sell or buy or offer to sell or buy
   any motor vehicle or any interest in a motor vehicle for or on behalf of the
   dealer, but does not include any individual engaged in the business of buying
   motor vehicles from licensed dealers for disposition or sale outside the
   District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   The term &#8220;salesperson&#8221; also includes any person who, for a
   consideration and with the express or implied consent of a dealer, arranges
   for the sale of a motor vehicle or any interest in a motor vehicle either by
   the dealer, or on or from the place of business of the dealer.
   
   
   
   The acceptance by a dealer of any transaction resulting from such an
   arrangement shall, prima facie, constitute that person a salesperson for that
   dealer, within the meaning of this chapter.
   
   
   
   Sales Finance Company &#8211; a person engaged in the District of Columbia in
   the business of purchasing instruments of security from one or more dealers.
   
   
   
   Terms of Payment of Time Price Balance &#8211; the number of installment
   payments to be made by the purchaser, the amount of each installment, and the
   due date or payment period.
   
   
   
   Time Price Balance &#8211; the total amount remaining to be paid by the
   purchaser to acquire complete ownership of the vehicle free and clear of all
   liens or encumbrances.
   
   
   
   
   
   Total Cash Price Balance &#8211; the balance of the cash sale price due, after
   deducting the cash down payment and the amount credited for trade-in, for
   which the dealer will transfer and assign to the purchaser title to the motor
   vehicle free and clear of any lien or encumbrance.
