                                  DC REGULATIONS

SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS (ยง 16-329)

329.1. Except as otherwise provided in ยง 330, all payments scheduled to be
   made under any instrument of security shall be in equal amounts and at regular
   intervals.

   329.2. The regular intervals shall be monthly, semimonthly, biweekly, or
   weekly.

   329.3. Each retail installment contract shall set forth, under the caption
   &#8220;TERMS OF PAYMENT OF TIME PRICE BALANCE,&#8221; the number of
   installment payments, the amount of each installment, the interval between the
   installment payments, the date on which the first installment shall be payable
   and, if it shall be less than the other installments, the amount of the final
   installment, which must be paid by the buyer in order to discharge in full the
   &#8220;TIME PRICE BALANCE&#8221; as set forth in the retail installment
   contract.

   329.4. If, pursuant to statute or this chapter, the installments (other than
   the final installment) are not equal in amount, or if the intervals between
   installments are not regular for all installments, then there shall be
   included under the caption &#8220;TERMS OF PAYMENT OF TIME PRICE
   BALANCE&#8221; a schedule or statement showing the amount of each installment
   and the due date of each installment.

   329.5. No person shall include in any promissory note, payment of which is
   secured by a retail installment contract, any provision, term, or condition of
   payment which varies materially from any provision, term, or condition of
   payment set forth in that retail installment contract.

   329.6. If any promissory note contains any provision, term, or condition of
   payment which varies in any material particular from the provisions, terms, or
   conditions of payment set forth in the retail installment contract, that
   provision, term, or condition of payment of the promissory note shall be
   deemed to be the provision, term, or condition of payment set forth in the
   retail installment contract.
