                                  DC REGULATIONS

BONDS OR OTHER SECURITY (§ 16-307)

307.1. Each applicant for license as a dealer or automobile repossessor and
   each applicant, other than a bank or trust company, for a license as a sales
   finance company, shall upon notification by the Director of the approval of an
   application, file in the office of the Director a bond in such form as the
   Director shall approve in the penal sum of five thousand dollars ($ 5,000)
   running to the District of Columbia, with corporate surety authorized by the
   Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to Title 6, U.S. Code (1958 Ed.), and by
   the Superintendent of Insurance of the District, to do business in the
   District.

   307.2. Each bond shall be conditioned as required by and shall be subject to
   the provisions of § 3 of Pub. L. 86-431; 74 Stat. 71 (4-22-60).

   307.3. In lieu of a corporate surety bond required by § 307.1, an applicant
   for a license as a dealer or automobile repossessor or for a license as a
   sales finance company may deposit with the D.C. Treasurer other security for
   the protection of members of the public against financial loss by reason of
   the failure of the licensee, or of any officer, agent, employee, or other
   person acting on behalf of the licensee, to observe any statute or regulation
   in force in the District applicable to the licensee&#8217;s conduct of his,
   her, or its business licensed pursuant to this chapter.

   307.4. The security which may be accepted by the D.C. Treasurer under § 307.3
   shall be one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Cash in the amount of five thousand dollars ($ 5,000);
   
   
   
   (b)	A certified check or cashier&#8217;s check in the amount of five thousand
   dollars ($ 5,000) made payable to the order of the D.C. Treasurer; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Marketable bond(s) or note(s) having in the aggregate a maturity value of
   at least six thousand dollars ($ 6,000) issued by the United States government
   or by any agency or instrumentality of the U.S. Government, together with an
   irrevocable power of attorney and agreement in form provided by the D.C.
   Treasurer authorizing the D.C. Treasurer to collect or sell, assign and
   transfer any such bond or note: Provided, that no such bond or note shall be
   collected or sold until such time as it may be necessary to make payment to
   any person entitled to recover damages from the security which the bond
   represents.

   307.5. Cash, certified checks, and cashier&#8217;s checks deposited for the
   purposes of this section and the proceeds of the collection or sale of any
   bond or note made pursuant to this section shall be deposited to the credit of
   a District of Columbia trust fund account and shall be available for the
   payment of any judgment rendered against the licensee in favor of any person
   who has sustained damage by reason of the violation by the licensee or by the
   licensee&#8217;s officer, agent, employee, or other person acting on the
   licensee&#8217;s behalf, of any statute or regulation in force in the District
   applicable to the licensee&#8217;s conduct of the business licensed pursuant
   to this chapter. No payment from the security deposited pursuant to this
   subsection on account of any such judgment shall be made until the judgment
   has become final and the period for filing an appeal has expired or the
   judgment debtor has waived in writing the right to take an appeal.

   307.6. Whenever the security deposited pursuant this section is other than
   bonds or notes and is reduced below five thousand dollars ($ 5,000), or
   whenever pursuant to § 307.4(c) the security is in the form of marketable
   bonds or notes, and, by reason of the payment of or on account of any final
   judgment, is reduced to an amount less than six thousand dollars ($ 6,000),
   the licensee shall, within five (5) calendar days after having been notified
   in writing by the Director do to so, make an additional deposit to bring the
   amount on deposit with the D. C. Treasurer for the purposes of this section up
   to five thousand dollars ($ 5,000) or six thousand dollars ($ 6,000), as the
   case may be.

   307.7. Payment made from security deposited pursuant to this section for or on
   account of a judgment shall include interest and costs as specified in the
   judgment or as may be required by statute.

   307.8. Any security deposited pursuant to this section shall be retained by
   the D. C. Treasurer for at least three (3) years after the expiration of the
   license in connection with which the security was deposited.

   307.9. In addition to the requirements of § 307.8, if the D. C. Treasurer is
   notified in writing that a suit has been filed against any licensee as a
   result of which a judgment may be payable out of security held under § 307.8,
   the security shall be retained by the D.C. Treasurer until such time as the
   suit has been reduced to judgment and the period for filing an appeal from
   that judgment has expired or the judgment debtor has waived in writing the
   right to take an appeal or until the suit has been otherwise disposed of.
