                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADVERTISING (ยง 16-323)

323.1. No dealer shall in any advertisement for the sale of a motor vehicle
   use any word, term, or phrase which is deceptive, misleading, or which is bait
   advertising.

   323.2. No dealer shall in any advertisement for the sale of a motor vehicle
   use any qualification or condition such as &#8220;upon approved credit&#8221;
   or any similar statement to justify an advertisement offering extremely low
   down payments or terms which can be granted only to a relatively few of the
   persons responding to, or expected to respond to, the advertisement.

   323.3. As used in this section, the term &#8220;bait advertising&#8221; means
   an alluring but insincere offer to sell a motor vehicle which the advertiser
   in truth does not intend or want to sell, the purpose thereof being to switch
   purchasers from buying the advertised merchandise in order to sell something
   else, usually at a higher price or on a basis more advantageous to the
   advertiser.

   323.4. The primary aim of bait advertising is to obtain leads as to persons
   interested in buying merchandise of the type so advertised.

   323.5. Whenever the amount of the down payment is shown in any advertisement
   there shall be included, immediately adjacent to the amount of the down
   payment, a clear, conspicuous and non-deceptive statement of the cash sale
   price of the vehicle.

   323.6. If either the amount or number of the installment payments are
   mentioned in any advertisement, then both the amount and number of those
   payments shall be mentioned and with equal prominence and clarity and
   immediately adjacent to each other.

   323.7. In any printed advertisement of the price or terms of sale of any motor
   vehicle, any qualification or condition in connection with the price or terms
   shall be printed immediately adjacent to the price or terms in type of such
   size and style and in such words and manner as that it clearly, conspicuously
   and non-deceptively sets forth any such qualification or condition.

   323.8. When any person licensed under this chapter advertises by means of
   radio or television the price or terms of sale of any motor vehicle, the
   advertisement shall be so phrased and delivered as to be in consonance with
   and consistent with the spirit and intent of this section.

   323.9. For the purposes of this section, any qualification or condition shall
   be printed in twelve point (12 pt.) type or type one-half (1/2) the size of
   the type used for the price or terms which are qualified or conditioned,
   whichever is greater.

   323.10. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any printed
   advertisement in which none of the type used exceeds twelve point (12 pt.) in
   size.
