                                  DC REGULATIONS

INSURANCE[COLON] TYPES AND AMOUNTS (ยง 16-325)

325.1. A buyer who executes a retail installment contract may be required to
   provide, at the buyer&#8217;s own cost, insurance covering the motor vehicle
   for the protection of the holder.

   325.2. The insurance required under ยง 325.1 shall be limited to the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Collision insurance with a deductible of at least fifty dollars ($ 50);
   
   
   
   (b)	Towing and labor costs; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Comprehensive or fire and theft, with or without combined additional
   coverage.

   325.3. The charges for insurance allowed under this section shall not exceed
   the premiums chargeable for the insurance under applicable law.

   325.4. No dealer shall execute any retail installment contract and no sales
   finance company shall purchase any such contract if the contract contains a
   charge for single interest insurance protecting the interest of the holder
   only, unless the policy or policies of the insurance contain a waiver of
   subrogation rendering it impossible for the insurance company to collect from
   the buyer any loss which it may pay to the holder.

   325.5. With the agreement of the buyer, charges not exceeding the premiums
   chargeable under applicable law may be included in the retail installment
   contract for the cost of the following types of insurance:
   
   
   
   (a)	Automobile bodily injury and property damage caused others;
   
   
   
   (b)	Automobile medical payments; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Credit life insurance.

   325.6. No costs shall be included in the retail installment contract for any
   type of insurance not authorized by this section.

   325.7. The amount of credit life insurance shall not, at any time, exceed the
   greater of the scheduled or actual unpaid &#8220;TIME PRICE BALANCE.&#8221;

   325.8. With respect to any insurance purchased by the holder which protects
   the interests of both the holder and buyer, the holder shall, within thirty
   (30) days after the execution of the retail installment contract, send or
   cause to be sent to the buyer a policy or policies or certificate or
   certificates of insurance, clearly setting forth the amount of the premium,
   the kind or kinds of insurance, the coverages and, if a policy, all the terms,
   exceptions, limitations, restrictions, and conditions of the contract or
   contracts of insurance; or if a certificate, a summary of that certificate.

   325.9. The buyer shall have the privilege of purchasing insurance from an
   agent, broker, or company of the buyer&#8217;s own selection; Provided, that
   inclusion in the retail installment contract of the cost of insurance
   purchased by the buyer from an agent, broker, or company selected by the buyer
   shall be at the option of the seller.

   325.10. The buyer shall also have the privilege of utilizing existing
   insurance in lieu of insurance which the seller may, under this chapter,
   require the buyer to provide at the buyer&#8217;s own cost.

   325.11. All insurance referred to in this chapter, whether that insurance may
   be required by the seller or may be purchased voluntarily by the buyer, means
   insurance issued or written by a company licensed to do business in the
   District of Columbia.
