                                  DC REGULATIONS

IRREGULAR OR UNEQUAL INSTALLMENTS (§ 16-330)

330.1. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 329, the interval for the first
   installment payment may be longer than the other intervals but shall not
   exceed ninety (90) days, except as may be permitted by § 330.4.

   330.2. If the governmental charges are not paid directly by the purchaser, any
   instrument of security may provide that there be one (1) or more special
   payments in addition to and payable in advance of the regular equal payments;
   Provided, that the total amount of that special payment or payments shall not
   exceed the governmental charges.

   330.3. The final installment payment may be less in amount than the preceding
   installment payments.

   330.4. If a buyer&#8217;s livelihood is dependent upon seasonal or
   intermittent income, one (1) or more of the regular installment payments in
   the schedule of payments included in any instrument of security may be reduced
   or postponed.

   330.5. Instruments of security and refinancing contracts may provide that the
   holder shall be entitled to collect on each installment in default for a
   period of more than ten (10) days one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A delinquency and collection charge in an amount not exceeding five
   percent (5%) of each installment or five dollars ($ 5), whichever is less; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Interest on each installment at a rate not in excess of eight percent (8%)
   per annum.

   330.6. Instruments of security or refinancing contracts may provide for the
   following in instances of delinquency:
   
   
   
   (a)	Payment of a reasonable attorney&#8217;s fee (not exceeding fifteen
   percent (15%) of the unpaid balance) to an attorney who is not a salaried
   employee of the holder of the instrument of security or refinancing contract;
   
   
   
   (b)	Payment of court costs; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Subject to the provisions of §§ 339 and 340, payment of actual and
   reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the holder as a result of the
   delinquency.
