                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROCEDURE FOR DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE (ยง 16-311)

311.1. Whenever the Director (or the Director&#8217;s designee) finds that an
   applicant for a license under this chapter is deficient in one (1) or more of
   the qualifications for the license applied for, or whenever the Director has
   reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any statute
   or regulation applicable to the conduct of a dealer, salesperson, automobile
   repossessor, or sales finance company for which the license of that dealer,
   salesperson, automobile repossessor, or sales finance company is subject to
   suspension or revocation, the Director shall give notice to the applicant or
   to the licensee, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of this
   section.

   311.2. The notice required by ยง 311.1 shall be in writing and shall be signed
   by the Director.

   311.3. In the case of a proposed denial of an application for license, the
   notice shall state in what respects an applicant is deficient and the ultimate
   facts upon which the Director relies.

   311.4. In the case of a proposal to suspend or revoke a license, the notice
   shall indicate the provision(s) of statute or regulations allegedly violated,
   and the ultimate facts upon which the Director relies.

   311.5. The notice shall state the action the Director proposes to take or to
   recommend.

   311.6. The notice shall advise that the action proposed or recommended will be
   taken at the expiration of ten (10) calendar days after service of the notice
   unless an appeal is taken to the Board of Appeals and Review.

   311.7. The notice shall be served upon the applicant or the licensee, as the
   case may be.

   311.8. A copy of the notice shall be delivered to the Administrator, Business
   Regulation Administration.

   311.9. The notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon the person
   affected by the notice when it or a copy of it is:
   
   
   
   (a)	Personally served on that person; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Left at the address stated on the license, or on the application in the
   case of an applicant, with a person over sixteen (16) years of age then
   employed or resident at that address; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Mailed by certified mail, postage prepaid addressed to the person at the
   address stated on the license issued to that person (or in the case of an
   applicant on the application filed by that person) and not returned by the
   post office authorities. If any notice mailed as authorized in this paragraph
   is returned by the post office authorities by reason of refusal of the
   addressee to accept delivery of the notice, it shall be deemed to have been
   served on the addressee by mail.
