                                  DC REGULATIONS

ESTABLISHMENT AND APPROVAL OF RESIDENTIAL PERMIT PARKING AREAS (§ 18-2412)

2412.1. Except as provided in § 2424, the Director shall establish objective
   criteria to use in determining whether or not a block of a street is eligible
   for designation as a residential permit parking block

   2412.2. In establishing the objective criteria, the Director shall consider
   the following factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	Whether, during any weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m., the motor
   vehicles parked on the street occupy at least seventy percent (70%) of the
   parking spaces of the block;
   
   
   
   (b)	Whether, during any weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m., at least ten
   percent (10%) of the motor vehicles parked on the street are not registered in
   that residential permit parking zone in the name of a person residing in the
   District;
   
   
   
   (c)	The clean air requirements of federal and District law;
   
   
   
   (d)	The possibility of a reduction of motor vehicle miles traveled;
   
   
   
   (e)	The likelihood of alleviating traffic congestion, illegal parking, and
   related health and safety hazards;
   
   
   
   (f)	The proximity of public transportation to the block;
   
   
   
   (g)	The desire and the need of the residents of the block to have the block
   regarded as a residential permit parking street and their willingness to bear
   the associated administrative costs;
   
   
   
   (h)	The need for parking for periods in excess of two (2) hours for business
   establishments and for religious, health, or education purposes; and
   
   
   
   (i)	The need for parking regulation to maintain the stability of the
   neighborhood.

   2412.3. Each residential permit parking sticker shall indicate at least the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Its expiration date;
   
   
   
   (b)	The residential permit parking zone in which it is valid; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The first and last digits of the license plate of the motor vehicle for
   which it is valid.

   2412.4. A residential permit parking sticker shall be issued or reissued for a
   period of one (1) year or two (2) years, unless the Director shall specify a
   different time period.

   2412.5. While a vehicle for which a residential permit parking (RPP) sticker
   has been issued is parked in the residential permit parking zone, the RPP
   sticker shall be affixed by its own adhesive to the lower left (driver’s)
   side of the windshield so that it’s contents are clearly visible through the
   windshield of the vehicle; Provided; that in the case of a motorcycle,
   motorized bicycle, or trailer, the RPP sticker shall be affixed to a mounting
   tab which shall be bolted to either corner of the identification tag. Expired
   RPP stickers shall not be left visible on a vehicle.

   2412.6. A residential permit parking sticker shall be valid only when
   displayed in accordance with the standards under §2412.5.

   2412.7. Simultaneous display of current residential parking stickers for more
   than one (1) zone shall make all the residential permit parking stickers
   invalid and shall be prima facie evidence of misrepresentation on the
   residential permit parking sticker application.

   2412.8. A residential permit parking sticker shall not guarantee or reserve to
   the holder a parking space within the designated residential permit parking
   zone.

   2412.9. A residential permit parking sticker shall not authorize the vehicle
   displaying the sticker to stand or park in any place or during any times when
   the stopping, standing, or parking of motor vehicles is prohibited or set
   aside for specific types of vehicles, nor provide an exemption from the
   observance of any traffic regulation other than the residential permit parking
   two (2) hour parking limit and the exemptions listed in §2411.19.

   2412.10. No sticker or permit for residential permit parking shall be used or
   displayed on any vehicle other than the one (1) for which it was issued. Any
   sticker or permit so displayed shall be void, and any unauthorized display of
   stickers or permits shall constitute a violation of this section by the
   sticker holder and by the owner or the operator of the vehicle displaying the
   permit.

   2412.11. After the Director designates a block for residential permit parking,
   the Director shall distribute applications for residential permit parking
   stickers to the residents of that block.

   2412.12. An application for a residential permit parking sticker shall contain
   the name of the owner or operator of the motor vehicle, the vehicle’s body
   make, body style, serial or VIN number, identification tag number, and, when
   appropriate, the vehicle’s reciprocity number.

   2412.13. The motor vehicle registration and related documentation may, in the
   discretion of the Director, be required to be presented when filing an
   application in order to verify the application.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: D.C. Act 14-356 published at 49 DCR 4475 (May 17, 2002); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 003972 (April 11, 2008); and as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 7793 (July 25, 2008).
