                                  DC REGULATIONS

SNOW EMERGENCY PARKING REGULATIONS (§ 18-2417)

2417.1. In addition to the Severe Weather Traffic Controls contained in §
   2219, whenever snow, sleet, or freezing rain is creating a condition making it
   necessary to prohibit the parking of motor vehicles on Snow Emergency Routes,
   or whenever on the basis of a firm forecast by the United States Weather
   Bureau of snow, sleet, or freezing rain such that the weather conditions so
   forecast may create a condition making it necessary to prohibit the parking of
   motor vehicles on Snow Emergency Routes, the Director shall be authorized to
   declare a snow emergency so as to prohibit parking on Snow Emergency Routes.
   This prohibition shall become effective not less than one (1) hour after the
   announcement or at a later time specified by the Director so as to prohibit
   the parking on any or all of the following streets:
   
   
   
   (a)	Designated Snow Emergency Routes as listed in § 4024;
   
   
   
   (b)	The “Even” and “Odd” sides of designated Snow Emergency Routes;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	The side of designated Snow Emergency Routes streets with an “a.m.” or
   “p.m.” rush hour, “no standing” or “no parking” restriction.

   2417.2. After the effective time of the prohibition, no person shall park any
   vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a Snow Emergency Route;
   Provided, that if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:30
   p.m., and prior to 7:00 a.m., and the Director has not announced, prior to
   11:30 p.m., that parking on Snow Emergency Routes is prohibited after a
   specified time, a vehicle parked on a Snow Emergency Route may remain so
   parked until 7:00 a.m.

   2417.3. The prohibition of parking announced by the Director under the
   authority of this section shall remain in effect until the Director announces
   the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the
   prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in
   effect.

   2417.4. The Director shall make or cause to be made a record of the date and
   time when the announcement of a parking prohibition is first made to the
   public in accordance with the requirements of this section; and the date,
   time, and conditions of any announcement made to the public of the termination
   of a snow emergency parking prohibition, either in part or in whole, in
   accordance with the provisions of this section.

   2417.5. Announcement of a snow emergency parking prohibition shall be in
   accordance with the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Each parking prohibition announcement by the Director shall be made
   between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., by means of broadcasts or
   telecasts from not less than two (2) radio or television stations with a
   normal operating range covering the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	Announcements shall, if possible, also be made through newspapers of
   general circulation; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Each announcement shall state the time that Snow Emergency Parking
   Regulations became or will become effective.

   2417.6. Whenever the Director finds that some or all of the conditions which
   gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition no longer exist, he or she shall
   be authorized to declare the termination of the emergency, in part or in
   whole, effective immediately upon announcement, except that if the
   announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be
   repeated between those hours.

   2417.7. [Deleted] 35 DCR 789, 790 (February 5, 1988)

   2417.8. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this title, any unattended
   vehicle parked on any Snow Emergency Route when the parking prohibition is in
   effect pursuant to § 2417 of this of this title, may be removed from such
   route in accordance with § 2421 of this title.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 789, 790 (February 5, 1988).
