                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMMERCIAL PERMIT PARKING; ANNUAL PASS (§ 18-2428)

There is established a commercial permit parking (CPP) annual pass to provide
commercial motor vehicle owners the option to purchase an annual parking pass
for a commercial motor vehicle to park in loading zones or at curbside parking
spaces instead of paying for parking at the meter in those zones.







A commercial motor vehicle owner or company shall complete an application, to be
provided by DDOT, including identifying information on each vehicle to be
registered for a CPP annual pass.







DDOT shall provide a decal to a participating commercial motor vehicle owner to
affix to each commercial motor vehicle in the owner’s fleet that is
participating in the CPP annual pass program.







The commercial parking permit decal shall display the following information:







A serial number or other identifying mark; and







The expiration date, which shall specify the last day that the permit for the
commercial motor vehicle is effective.







Except as provided in § 2428.6, a participating company shall affix a valid
parking decal provided by DDOT on each commercial motor vehicle in the
company’s fleet that is participating in the CPP program on the lower right
hand corner of the passenger side window.







A company that purchases seventy-five (75) permits may, subject to approval by
DDOT, use their company logo instead of the decal.







The CPP annual pass shall allow for parking at designated loading zones during
times specified in those zones; provided, that if no time is specified, the
loading zone shall be in effect between 7:00 a.m. to 6:30 p.m., or in a metered
curbside zone during off-peak hours of 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. and when meter
enforcement is not in effect, as posted on the signs and meters in the parking
zone; provided further, that such parking is otherwise consistent with the
provisions of § 2402.







Notwithstanding § 2404.5, a commercial motor vehicle may park outside a loading
zone between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. with a valid annual pass if
it occupies no more than two (2) metered spaces or no more than forty feet (40
ft.) within a parking zone serviced by a multi-space meter.



SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16844 (December 13, 2013).
