                                  DC REGULATIONS

OFFICIAL PARKING PERMITS AND SPACES (§ 18-2420)

2420.1. Government officials parking in official parking areas shall display,
   in a conspicuous place behind the windshield of their vehicle, an “Official
   Parking Permit” which is issued by the Director.

   2420.2. The holder of a special parking permit issued in accordance with
   paragraph (e), § 6, of the District of Columbia Traffic Act, shall not do any
   of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Park a vehicle in any reserved official space less than four (4) blocks
   from any building in which he or she is permanently or regularly assigned or
   employed;
   
   
   
   (b)	Park a vehicle in any reserved official space at any time in violation of
   existing traffic regulations otherwise applicable to the area in which the
   space is located; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Park a vehicle beyond the time limit specified on posted signs
   establishing the space.

   2420.3. An Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner while on official business and
   occupying a vehicle displaying an ANC parking placard distributed pursuant to
   D.C. Official Code § 1-309.12 may park the vehicle at any:
   
   
   
   (a)	Parking meter without the requirement of payment of meter fees under 18
   DCMR 2404.06;
   
   
   
   (b)	Timed-limit curbside space including Residential Permit Parking areas; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Official government reserved parking space.

   2420.4. Nothing in § 2420.3 shall be construed as authorizing Advisory
   Neighborhood Commissioners to park a motor vehicle in any place where or
   during any times when the stopping, standing, or parking of motor vehicles is
   prohibited or set aside for specified types of vehicles, nor exempt the holder
   from the observance of any traffic regulation other than those mentioned in
   2420.3.

   2420.5. Any person who willfully and falsely commits any of the following acts
   shall be considered in violation of this chapter:
   
   
   
   (a)	Utilizes an ANC placard or license plate not issued to that person to
   obtain the special parking privileges enumerated in this chapter; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Allows a non-ANC Commissioner to use his or her placard or license plate
   to obtain parking privileges when the ANC Commissioner is not in the motor
   vehicle; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Utilizes an ANC parking placard or license plate for special parking
   privileges while not on official business.

   2420.6. The Director is authorized to revoke the ANC parking privileges of any
   individual found to be in violation of this chapter. Upon written notification
   of the revocation the individual shall surrender the placard to the Director.

   2420.7. Failure to surrender a revoked parking placard shall constitute a
   violation of this chapter.

   2420.8. An ANC parking placard shall be issued upon request of an Advisory
   Neighborhood Commissioner and shall be valid for a period of two years or
   until the Commissioner’s term ends, whichever is the first to occur, and may
   be renewed for a similar period for so long as the Commissioner remains in
   office.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 3438 (April 2, 2004).
