                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMMERCIAL PERMIT PARKING; DAY PASS (ยง 18-2429)

There is established a CPP day pass to provide commercial motor vehicle owners
the option to purchase a daily parking pass for a commercial motor vehicle to
park in loading zones or at curbside parking spaces instead of paying for
parking at the meter in those zones.







A commercial motor vehicle owner or company shall complete an application, to be
provided by DDOT, including identifying information on each vehicle to be
registered in the CPP day pass program.







The CPP day pass shall be valid at loading zones and curbside parking spaces on
the date shown on the day-pass.







The CPP day pass shall allow parking for up to two (2) hours at designated
loading zones during times specified in those zones; provided, that if no time
is specified, the loading zone shall be in effect between 7:00 a.m. to 6:30
p.m., or in a metered curbside zone during off-peak hours of 10:00 a.m. to 2:00
p.m. and when meter enforcement is not in effect, as posted on the signs and
meters in the parking zone; provided further, that such parking is otherwise
consistent with the provisions of ยง 2402.







A CPP day pass shall be obtained by the company for each commercial delivery
vehicle that will be operating in the District on a given day and will be using
a day pass.  A CPP day pass may not be shared between two (2) or more vehicles.







The commercial motor vehicle operator shall place the day pass facing out on the
inside of the passenger side window of the vehicle so that it is clearly visible
through the passenger side window of the vehicle.







The expiration date displayed on the commercial permit parking day pass shall
specify the date on which the day pass is effective.







Notwithstanding ยง 2404.5, a commercial motor vehicle may park outside a loading
zone between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. with a valid day pass if it
occupies no more than two (2) metered spaces or no more than forty feet (40 ft.)
within a parking zone serviced by a multi-space meter.



SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16844 (December 13, 2013).
