                                  DC REGULATIONS

STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED[COLON] NO SIGN REQUIRED (§ 18-2405)

2405.1. No person shall stop, stand, or park a motor vehicle or trailer in any
   of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
   traffic, in compliance with law, or at the direction of a police officer or
   traffic control device:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Within an intersection;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   On a crosswalk;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when stopping,
   standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Upon any bridge, viaduct, or other elevated structure, freeway, highway
   tunnel, or ramps leading to or from such structures, or within a highway
   tunnel;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   On any median, channelizing island, or safety zone, whether made of concrete,
   grass, or other material and with curbs or otherwise delineated by solid
   yellow or white lines;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   In any driveway, alley entrance, or other way when stopping, standing or
   parking would obstruct the flow of pedestrians or other lawful traffic upon
   any sidewalk;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   In a bicycle lane; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   On the sidewalk.
   
   
   
   2405.2 	No person shall stand or park a motor vehicle or trailer, whether
   occupied or not, in any of the following places (including for the purpose of
   loading or unloading materials), except when necessary to avoid conflict with
   other traffic, or at the direction of a police officer, traffic control sign,
   or signal; provided, that a vehicle may stop momentarily to pick up or
   discharge a passenger or passengers:
   
   (a) 	In front of or within five feet (5 ft.) of an alley, public driveway, or
   private driveway;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Within ten feet (10 ft.) of a fire hydrant;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Except as provided in § 2411.21 of this title, within forty feet (40
   ft.) of the intersection of curb lines of intersecting streets or within
   twenty-five feet (25 ft.) of the intersection of curb lines on the far
   (non-approach) side of a one-way street; except that trucks vending ice cream
   shall park curbside when stopping to make a sale, as close as possible to a
   pedestrian cross-walk without entering the intersection, and without unduly
   interfering with the flow of traffic;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Within twenty-five feet (25 ft.) of the approach side of any “STOP”
   or “YIELD” sign located at the side of the roadway;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Within fifty feet (50 ft.) of a railroad crossing;
   
   
   
   (f) 	Within twenty feet (20 ft.) of a fire station driveway entrance;
   
   
   
   (g) 	In or on any street or roadway when such parking will reduce the width of
   the open roadway to less than ten feet (10 ft.);
   
   
   
   (h) 	In front of any barricade or sign that has been placed for the purpose of
   closing the street; or
   
   
   
   (i) 	In a fire lane located on public or private space.

   2405.3. No person shall park a motor vehicle or trailer, whether occupied or
   not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
   in loading or unloading of passengers or freight in any of the following
   places:
   
   (a) 	On the public parking between the sidewalk space and the building line,
   except parking shall be permitted on public parking at those locations
   designated under this title and at locations authorized by permit and upon
   payment of rent;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Between a safety zone or channelizing island and the adjacent curb or
   within ninety feet (90 ft.) of points on the curb immediately opposite the
   ends of a safety zone or channelizing island unless otherwise indicated by
   official signs;
   
   
   
   (c) 	On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb
   of a street;
   
   
   
   (d)	Within twenty-five feet (25 ft.) of either side of motorists’ courtesy
   mail boxes;
   
   
   
   (e) 	In any public alley; provided, that parking shall be permitted in a
   public alley where authorized by a public space permit or where designated by
   posted sign; and
   
   
   
   (f) 	In a manner to obstruct the entrance to any garage, parking lot or yard,
   door, or gate used for service purposes.

   2405.4. REPEALED

   2405.5. The following may not be parked on any public thoroughfare in front
   of, alongside, or in the rear of any private dwelling or apartment, house of
   worship, school, playground, or hospital; provided, a vehicle may be parked in
   front of, alongside, or in the rear of such property while engaged in work at
   such place for which the vehicle is reasonably necessary:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any passenger vehicle with a seating capacity of more than fifteen (15)
   passengers;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A boat;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A trailer, whether loaded or unloaded;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any vehicle longer than twenty-two feet (22 ft.) or wider than eight feet (8
   ft.); or
   
   
   
   (e)	Any vehicle that has been designed or modified to haul trash, junk, or
   debris.

   2405.6. No vehicle described in § 2405.5(a) through (e) may be parked
   	alongside or around any public park except in stands established in
   	accordance with this chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: D.C. Law 15-35 published at 50 DCR 6579 (August 15, 2003); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 6101 (July 28, 2006); as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2497, 2498 (March 18, 2011); as
   corrected by an Errata Notice published at 58 DCR 5441 (July 1, 2011).
