                                  DC REGULATIONS

PARKING PROHIBITED BY POSTED SIGN (§ 18-2406)

2406.1. The Director is authorized to have signs prohibiting parking, except
   for those vehicles indicated by such signs, placed where government parking
   areas have been provided.

   2406.2. The Director is authorized to have signs prohibiting parking placed on
   streets adjacent to any school on school days, or playgrounds between the
   hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m., or for such lesser time as the Director may,
   in his or her discretion, establish.

   2406.3. The Director is authorized to have signs prohibiting parking placed in
   front of the entrance of any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A government or public building;
   
   
   
   (b)	A theater, hospital, hotel, club, or church;
   
   
   
   (c)	An apartment building in which twenty-five (25) or more separate families
   are housed;
   
   
   
   (d)	A restaurant having facilities for two hundred fifty (250) or more people
   or where there is a marquee or covered walkway; or
   
   
   
   (e)	The principal entrance of the embassy or legation of any foreign country.

   2406.4. The Director is authorized to have signs prohibiting parking placed in
   front of the entrance of any office building having ten (10) or more offices,
   or the chancery of the embassy or legation of any foreign country between the
   hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m.

   2406.5. The Director is authorized to have signs prohibiting parking placed
   for a distance not to exceed sixty feet (60 ft.) along the curb in front of or
   along side of any building occupied by an embassy or legation of any foreign
   country, except for those vehicles bearing diplomatic motor vehicle
   identification tags.

   2406.6. The Director is authorized to erect signs indicating “NO PARKING”
   from the intersection of curb lines of intersecting streets to a point
   twenty-five feet (25 ft.) in advance of and on the approach to a vehicle
   detector for traffic signals or for vehicle counters located in the road.

   2406.7. The Director is authorized to erect signs indicating “NO PARKING”
   on any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed twenty feet (20
   ft.) or on one side of any street when the width of the roadway does not
   exceed thirty feet (30 ft.).

   2406.8. When official signs prohibiting parking are erected on narrow streets
   as authorized in § 2406.7, no person shall park a vehicle upon any such
   street in violation of any such sign.

   2406.9. The Director of the Department of Public Works is authorized to
   establish reserved on-street parking spaces for exclusive use of individuals
   with disabilities provided:
   
   
   
   (a)	Parking in spaces established pursuant to this subsection shall be
   permitted only for the use of individuals with disabilities utilizing vehicles
   displaying special license tags or special permits issued pursuant to Chapter
   27 or issued by other state or Country.
   
   
   
   (b)	To the extent deemed practical and lawful by the Director, such spaces
   shall be located adjacent to or nearby a curb cut or driveway;
   
   
   
   (c)	All parking meters shall meet the standards of the American with
   Disability Act Accessibility Guidelines; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Unauthorized vehicles parked in such spaces shall be in violation of and
   subject to the fine set forth in § 2601.
   
   
   
   (e)	The Director may establish reasonable payment and time limitations for
   parking in the spaces established pursuant to this subsection; provided, that
   any time restrictions established allow twice the period of parking time
   permitted at the nearest non-reserved, time-limited parking space.
   
   
   
   (f)	No later than 10 days after the effective date of the Parking Amendment
   Act of 2006, passed on 2nd reading on July 11, 2006 (Enrolled version of Bill
   16-536), the Director of the District Department of Transportation shall
   commence a study to determine the appropriate locations of the reserved
   parking spaces authorized by this subsection. The study shall also address the
   accessibility of parking meters for persons with disabilities and identify any
   alternative means by which meter payment requirements can be met.

   2406.10. The Director may establish the parking spaces authorized by §
   2406.9, without first publishing the notice provided for in section 6 of the
   District of Columbia Administrative Procedures Act, approved October 21, 1968
   (82 Stat. 1204; D.C. Official Code § 1-1506), but shall provide affected
   Advisory Neighborhood Commissions with thirty-days (30) written notice of the
   intent to establish such spaces.

   2406.11. The Department shall implement a public education program on changes
   in the handicapped parking procedures consisting of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The placing of informational cards in all Department of Motor Vehicles
   offices in collaboration with the Department of Public Works;
   
   
   
   (b)	Notifying District and federal agencies, community and civic
   organizations, businesses, and property managers for dissemination to their
   tenants;
   
   
   
   (c)	Providing reminder notices to the disabled community;
   
   
   
   (d)	Providing notices to all District hotels and visitor centers; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Undertaking any additional public education and information efforts deemed
   appropriate by the Director or the Department of Public Works.

   2406.12. The Director is authorized to establish reserved on-street parking
   spaces for the exclusive use of car-sharing vehicles provided:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Director may establish reserved on-street parking spaces for the exclusive
   use of car-sharing vehicles pursuant to public right-of-way occupancy permits
   issued pursuant to 24 DCMR § 3313.
   
   
   
   (b)	Repealed.
   
   
   
   (c)	Unauthorized vehicles parked in such spaces shall be in violation of and
   subject to the fine set forth in § 2601; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The Director may authorize the Department of Motor Vehicles to issue
   special license plates pursuant to this subsection properly identifying
   reserved on-street car-sharing vehicles as such, in order to aid in the
   enforcement of § 2406.12(c).

   2406.13. The Director may establish the parking spaces authorized by §§
   2406.12 and 2406.14 without first publishing the notice provided for in
   section 6 of the District of Columbia Administrative Procedures Act, approved
   October 21, 1968 (82 Stat. 1204; D.C. Official Code § 1-1506), but shall
   consult with affected Advisory Neighborhood Commissions (ANCs) and provide
   affected ANCs with thirty (30) days written notice of the intent to establish
   such spaces.

   2406.14. The Director is authorized to establish reserved on-street parking
   spaces for the exclusive use of charging electric vehicles, provided:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Parking in spaces established pursuant to this subsection shall be permitted
   only for electric vehicles while they are being charged in accordance with the
   guidelines provided on the charging station;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Unauthorized vehicles parked in such spaces shall be in violation of this
   subsection and subject to the fine set forth in § 2601; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A vehicle occupying a space established pursuant to this subsection shall be
   required to pay the parking meter rates for that space in addition to any
   inconvenience fee specified in 24 DCMR § 225.1(r).

   2406.15. On-street parking spaces reserved for the exclusive use of charging
   electric vehicles shall be considered part of the Premium Demand Parking Meter
   Rate Zone.

   2406.16. Vehicles may not park and charge for more than four (4) hours between
   6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday at an on-street parking space
   reserved for the exclusive use of charging electric vehicles.

   2406.17. Notwithstanding §§ 2404.9 and 2406.16, on-street parking spaces
   reserved for the exclusive use of charging electric vehicles, and the
   associated fees, shall be in effect at all times.

   2406.18. The Director is authorized to establish a point-to-point car-sharing
   management program allowing point-to-point car-sharing vehicles to be parked
   in any residential permit parking zone and at parking meters without payment
   at the time of parking, provided:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Parking in residential permit parking zones and at parking meters pursuant to
   this section shall be permitted only for vehicles registered to and operated
   by any point-to-point car-sharing company in the District that enters into a
   one (1)-year contract with the District that shall include, but not be limited
   to, the following provisions:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	The company must indemnify the District against legal liabilities associated
   with the use of public space with point-to-point car-sharing operations;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	All company point-to-point car-sharing vehicles parked in the District,
   regardless of whether they are located on private or public space, must be
   registered in the District of Columbia and display District license plates;
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	At least seven (7) point-to-point car-sharing vehicles must be located in
   low-income neighborhoods as identified by DDOT even if such locations are not
   desired or requested by the company;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   In addition to the general provisions listed in § 2428.2, the Department may
   charge for the point-to-point car-sharing program a fee for the use of
   residential permit parking zones and metered parking spaces should it
   determine that doing so is in the public interest;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Notwithstanding § 2404.8 of this chapter, the Director may permit a
   car-sharing vehicle registered in the point-to-point car-sharing program to
   park in a metered parking zone without payment at the time of parking;
   provided that the vehicle displays an annual permit purchased by the company
   for all of its registered point-to-point car-sharing vehicles;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Notwithstanding § 2404.3 of this chapter, the Director may permit a
   car-sharing vehicle registered in the point-to-point car-sharing program to
   park in a metered parking zone past the maximum amount of time for that
   metered zone provided that the vehicle displays an annual permit purchased by
   the company for all of its registered point-to-point car-sharing vehicles;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Car-sharing vehicles registered in the point-to-point car-sharing program may
   not be parked at times and locations in the District when and where parking is
   prohibited, including but not limited to, a.m. and p.m. rush hour restricted
   streets and snow emergency routes;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Notwithstanding § 2413.13 of this chapter, a point-to-point car-sharing
   vehicle registered in the point-to-point car-sharing program may park in a
   residential permit parking zone, provided it displays a valid annual permit
   described in paragraph (g) of this subsection;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The annual permit for a point-to-point car-sharing vehicle shall be a
   non-transferable sticker issued by the Director and it shall be affixed by its
   own adhesive to the lower left (driver&#8217;s) side of the windshield so that
   its contents are clearly visible through the windshield of the vehicle;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A point-to-point car-sharing vehicle located in the District, regardless of
   whether they are parked on private or public spaces, must be registered in the
   District of Columbia and display District license plates;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The point-to-point car-sharing company must maintain at least fifty (50)
   vehicles in its fleet and must maintain one percent (1%) of its fleet in each
   Ward of the city at any point in time and must maintain an area of operation
   that includes the entire District of Columbia, excluding National Park Service
   land. To account for time required to move cars, car-sharing companies shall
   be allowed a maximum of two (2) hours with zero (0) vehicles in a Ward;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DDOT reserves the right to terminate the agreement at any time;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If the one (1)-year permit expires and the District of Columbia does not
   re-sign or reissue it, or if DDOT terminates the agreement, no vehicles
   registered to the point-to-point car-sharing company may be parked in any
   residential permit parking zone past the time allowed for vehicles without a
   residential permit parking sticker or be parked at a meter without paying the
   applicable fee; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The point-to-point car-sharing company shall provide DDOT with data on a
   quarterly basis to help evaluate the impact of the program. DDOT shall provide
   the point-to-point car-sharing company with the specific performance measures
   and the dates that information shall be provided to DDOT.  The performance
   measures may include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	D.C. Membership and rate-of-growth;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Geographical distribution of membership in a format that DDOT determines;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Utilization per vehicle per month for each vehicle;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Annual membership survey including questions regarding:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	The number of cars owned by the members prior to membership;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	The number of cars owned by the member at the time of the survey;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	If the purchase of a vehicle planned prior to membership was subsequently
   abandoned due to membership;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	If miles regularly traveled by the member increased, declined or remained the
   same after membership;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Whether walking, biking and transit trips by the member increased, declined
   or remained the same after membership; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	How trips would have been taken if a car-sharing vehicle were not available.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 4744 (May 20, 2005); and as
   amended by D.C. Act 16-453 published at 53 DCR 6499 (August 11, 2006); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 5338 (June 24,
   2011); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 10635,
   10636 (December 16, 2011); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR
   11236 (August 2, 2013).
