                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROPER PARKING[COLON] GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS (ยง 18-2400)

2400.1. No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than
   parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful
   traffic movement.

   2400.2. A person shall stand or park a vehicle on a two-way street with the
   right-hand wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches (12 in.) of the right
   curb or edge of the roadway.

   2400.3. On a one-way street, a vehicle may be parked in the same manner as on
   a two-way street or may park with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle adjacent
   to and within twelve inches (12 in.) of the left-hand curb.

   2400.4. If a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic is
   restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
   park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs
   are erected to permit such standing or parking.

   2400.5. No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal
   purpose of doing either of the following:
   
   
   
   	 (a)	Displaying the vehicle for sale; or
   
   
   
   	(b)	Greasing or repairing the vehicle, except minor repairs
   
   		necessitated by an emergency.

   2400.6. Except as provided in ยง 2403, the provisions of this chapter
   prohibiting the standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times, or
   at those times herein specified, or as indicated on official signs, except
   when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or
   in compliance with the direction of a police officer or official traffic
   control device.

   2400.7. The provisions of this chapter imposing a time limit on parking shall
   not relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
   provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of
   vehicles in specified places or at specified times.

   2400.8. A person may park a motorcycle or motorized bicycle in a direction
   other than parallel with the edge of the roadway, including perpendicular with
   the curb, if the motorcycle or motorized bicycle does not obstruct the flow of
   traffic.
   
   
   
   Source: as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2497
   (March 18, 2011).
