                                  DC REGULATIONS

LOADING ZONES (§ 18-2402)

The Director of the District Department of Transportation (DDOT) shall install
and maintain signs designating the location for each commercial motor vehicle
loading zone (“loading zone”).  Each sign shall state the hours during which
the loading zone restrictions apply.







A commercial motor vehicle may park within a loading zone, if it meets one (1)
of the following conditions:







The commercial motor vehicle displays a loading zone annual pass, as described
in § 2428;







The commercial motor vehicle displays a loading zone day pass, as described in
§ 2429; or







The commercial motor vehicle has one (1) of the following proofs of payment:



(1)	An unexpired single space meter; or



(2)	An alternative proof of payment, as determined by the DDOT Director.







Notwithstanding § 2402.2:



(a)	A commercial motor vehicle shall not park in a loading zone pursuant to §
2402.2 for a purpose other than loading or unloading;



(b)	A commercial motor vehicle shall not be parked in a loading zone during any
period of time when parking and standing is prohibited on the block on which the
loading zone is located, such as during rush hour parking restriction periods;
and



(c)	A commercial motor vehicle shall not park in a loading zone for longer than
the time indicated on the signs or parking meters in that zone; provided, that
where no signs are present, the maximum amount of time a commercial motor
vehicle may park in a loading zone is two (2) hours.







No other vehicle shall park or stop in a loading zone during the hours
applicable to the zone, except that the operator of a passenger vehicle carrying
fifteen (15) passengers or fewer may park in a loading zone during such hours if
the operator is stopping momentarily within the loading zone to pick up a
passenger or passengers and if such stopping does not interfere with a
commercial motor vehicle that is within the loading zone or is waiting to enter
the loading zone.







When parking in a loading zone, the operator of a commercial motor vehicle that
does not have a valid loading zone annual permit or day pass shall, immediately
after parking, pay for the amount of time desired.







A commercial motor vehicle may not park at a non-loading zone parking meter
space at the times specified in those zones; provided, that if no time is
specified, the loading zone shall be in effect between 7:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m.;
provided further, that a commercial motor vehicle may park at a non-loading zone
parking meter space between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.







The fee to park a commercial motor vehicle within a loading zone shall be
established by the DDOT Director and posted in the loading zone; provided, that
the Director shall not establish a fee greater than five dollars ($5.00) per
hour.



SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 131 (January 5, 2007); as amended
by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 16844 (December 13, 2013).
