                                  DC REGULATIONS

LOADING AND UNLOADING VEHICLES (ยง 18-2401)

2401.1. If no curb space is available within a reasonable distance, a
   passenger vehicle may stand parallel and as near as practicable to other
   parked vehicles, only long enough to take on passengers who are actually
   waiting at the curb or to leave off passengers.

   2401.2. Unless prohibited by ยง 2402, a vehicle may stop parallel and as near
   as practicable to parked vehicles while loading; Provided, that the vehicle
   while so parked will not unreasonably impede or interfere with orderly two-way
   traffic, or on a one-way street, that at least one lane is kept open for
   moving traffic.

   2401.3. On any street, highway, or any portion of a street or highway, where
   parking is prohibited but stopping and standing are not prohibited, passenger
   vehicles may stop momentarily to load and unload passengers, and any vehicle
   may stop long enough to actually load and unload materials.

   2401.4. When stopping to load and unload school children along the roadway, a
   school bus driver shall pull as far to the right as is safe, at a place on the
   roadway where there is three hundred feet (300 ft.) or more of clear sight
   distance to the front and rear, and stop only for such time as is actually
   necessary to take on or discharge passengers.

   2401.5. Before making a stop to load or unload passengers, a school bus driver
   shall actuate the flashing white stroboscopic light not less than three
   hundred feet (300 ft.) distant from the stop, and allow the light to remain
   flashing until the bus resumes motion after the stop.

   2401.6. At each stop to pick up or discharge one or more school children, the
   school bus driver shall actuate the flashing red light during the time that
   the bus is stopped to pick up or discharge passengers, and shall turn off the
   light when the bus resumes motion.

   2401.7. Commercial vehicles shall not be parked at an angle to the curb or
   perpendicular to the curb on any roadway or alley except for the delivery of
   coal or objects which require the services of two (2) or more men or special
   equipment (such as a winch or hoist) to load or unload, and then only for so
   long as may be actually necessary for such loading or unloading.

   2401.8. A four-wheeled, animal-drawn vehicle, a tractor-trailer, or tractor
   semi-trailer combination shall stand so that the animals or tractor are
   parallel with the curb, facing in the direction of traffic.

   2401.9. In the following designated market areas, vehicles may park at an
   angle to the curb when parking of vehicles is otherwise permitted:
   
   
   
   (a)	The west side of 7th Street, S.E. between C Street and North Carolina
   Avenue; and
   
   
   
   (b)	All streets in the area of the Union Market Terminal bounded by the north
   curb of Florida Avenue, the west curb of 6th Street, the south curb of Penn
   Street and the Pennsylvania Railroad siding.
