                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY PARKING PERMITS (§ 18-2403)

2403.1. Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, holders
   of emergency parking permits issued by the Director may stand or park their
   vehicles in available parking space in the roadway in accordance with the
   provisions of this section, at the following locations:
   
   
   
   (a)	Entrances to office buildings, apartment buildings, hotels, nursing homes,
   and residences;
   
   
   
   (b)	Loading zones;
   
   
   
   (c)	Within spaces set aside for holders of official parking permits;
   
   
   
   (d)	Within part or all of the twenty-five foot (25 ft.) space on the far or
   non-approach side of the intersection of a one-way street with another street,
   but not within ten feet (10 ft.) of the curb line of the intersecting street
   or within a marked crosswalk; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Taxicab and sightseeing vehicle stands.

   2403.2. Emergency parking permits shall be used only while the holder is
   actually responding to an emergency believed to be one in which the life or
   death of any individual is dependent upon standing or parking by a physician
   in the places permitted in § 2403.1.

   2403.3. While a vehicle for which a permit has been issued is parked in
   accordance with this section, the permit shall be displayed so as to be
   clearly visible through the windshield of the vehicle.

   2403.4. No person other than the permittee named on the permit shall use an
   emergency parking permit or display it on a vehicle operated or parked. Any
   such use or display by a person other than the permittee shall constitute a
   violation of these regulations by the permittee and by the person who so used
   or displayed it. [MISDEMEANOR: See § 1110]

   2403.5. Upon a satisfactory showing that an applicant is a physician duly
   licensed as such by the District of Columbia, the Director of the Bureau of
   Motor Vehicles Services is authorized to issue an emergency parking permit to
   the applicant.

   2403.6. Each emergency parking permit shall be numbered and shall bear the
   name and address of the physician to whom it is issued, the description of the
   vehicle operated by the physician, and the number of the current registration
   tags issued for the vehicle.

   2403.7. Each emergency parking permit shall be issued and remain valid on the
   condition that the Director may, at any time, require the holder of the permit
   to justify, in writing, any particular use of the permit, and to clearly set
   forth in such justification the conditions which led to the belief that the
   life or death of an individual was dependent upon standing or parking a
   vehicle in one of the places set forth in § 2403.1 and the name of the person
   who requested or required the emergency medical or surgical assistance of the
   permittee.

   2403.8. If the Director find from a written justification submitted in
   compliance with § 2403.7, or from independent investigation, or both, that an
   emergency parking permit has in any instance been used to park a vehicle in
   any areas set forth in § 2403.1 at a time when the holder had knowledge, or
   reason to believe, that no emergency situation described in § 2403.2 existed,
   or find that a permit was used in violation of § 2403.4, the Director is
   authorized to revoke the permit, and, upon written notification of the
   revocation, the permittee shall surrender the permit to the Director.

   2403.9. Failure to surrender a revoked emergency parking permit upon request
   shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
