                                  DC REGULATIONS

PREFERENCES FOR PLACEMENT ELIGIBILITY HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER APPLICANTS (§
14-6125)

6125.1 	The waiting list guidelines for admission to the HCVP are found at §
   6103 and are incorporated into the Administrative Plan by reference.

   6125.2. Applicants eligible for preferences shall be selected from the waiting
   lists in order of priority as set forth below:
   
   
   
   (a)	Substandard Housing. The substandard preference is divided into three
   major ranking factors and is implemented in the following priority order:
   
   
   
   (1)	Homeless, as explained in § 6125.3;
   
   
   
   (2)	Applicants residing in units that have been declared unfit for habitation
   or which contain one or more Housing Quality Standard or local housing code
   violations as explained in § 6125.3; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Involuntarily Displaced, as explained at § 6125.5 through § 6125.8; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Rent Burdened, as explained at § 6125.9; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Disabled families as defined in § 5999.

   6125.3. DCHA shall give highest placement priority on the waiting list to
   Homeless applicant families as defined by D.C. Official Code § 4-751.01 (2008
   Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.) who can demonstrate that they no longer have a place
   to live or are in jeopardy of losing their residence.  The following types of
   documentation are acceptable to support the status of the Family as homeless:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Documentation from a social worker, police officer, shelter, or other
   qualified source showing that the applicant’s primary nighttime residence is
   a public or private shelter, street, condemned building, or other place not
   fit for habitation;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Documentation showing residency in a temporary residence facility which may
   include a nursing home, hospital, or mental health facility;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Documentation of residency in a transitional housing facility, showing
   residence is for no more than twenty-four (24) months;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Documentation from a social worker, police officer, shelter, or other
   qualified source, that the applicant Family is considered to be chronically
   homeless based upon four (4) incidences as described above in the one (1) year
   period preceding the date of application; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Documentation that the applicant Family is living with another household or in
   another living situation that is tenuous and where the applicant Family has no
   legal right to occupy the unit, for example, where the right to remain has
   been revoked by lawful tenant or could be revoked at any time.

   6125.4. DCHA shall give placement priority to applicant families who currently
   reside in substandard housing and units declared unfit for habitation provided
   the applicant Family can provide inspection records from the Department of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs or other qualified person or agency.
   
   
   
   6125.5 	DCHA shall give placement priority to an applicant Family who is
   involuntarily displaced due to a disaster.  The applicant Family shall provide
   documentation from a qualified person or agency regarding the disaster and the
   unit conditions.

   6125.6. DCHA shall give placement priority to an applicant Family who is
   involuntarily displaced due to federal, state, or local government action
   related to code enforcement or public improvement.  The applicant Family shall
   provide documentation from the listed agency taking the relevant action.

   6125.7. DCHA shall give placement priority to an applicant Family who is
   involuntarily displaced due to action by an owner or landlord beyond the
   Family’s control.  The applicant Family shall provide the notice from the
   landlord or owner on actions or notice to vacate said property.  Examples
   include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Foreclosure documents;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Notice to Vacate with the reason for the action; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Eviction Notice with the reason for the action.

   6125.8. DCHA shall give placement priority to an applicant Family who is
   involuntarily displaced due to Domestic Violence.  The applicant Family shall
   provide documentation from a social worker, police officer, shelter, or other
   qualified source regarding the incident or incidences of domestic violence and
   current housing arrangements for the applicant Family.

   6125.9. DCHA shall give placement priority to an applicant Family who is
   claiming that its current rent is creating a financial burden.  The applicant
   Family shall provide DCHA with its current lease agreement, current utilities
   paid by the applicant Family and a financial affidavit of current income.

   6125.10. Permanent Supportive Housing- HCVP Applicants are included under this
   preference if an applicant is referred to DCHA by an agency of the District of
   Columbia government as an individual or family in need of permanent supportive
   housing for chronically homeless individuals and families with histories of
   homelessness. Up to 447 vouchers are authorized for this purpose. 26 of the
   447 vouchers allocated to this permanent supportive housing limited local
   preference were reallocated from the condemnation voucher preference set forth
   in Section 7604.4(b), Chapter 76 of Title 14.  To the extent any of such 26
   vouchers are not issued and actually used by an applicant for housing under
   this permanent supportive housing limited local preference by January 31,
   2013, any of such unused vouchers shall be reallocated to the condemnation
   voucher limited local preference under Section 7604.4(b).

   6125.11. Long Term Care Housing – HCVP Applicants are included under this
   preference if an applicant is referred to DCHA by an agency of the District of
   Columbia government as a person in need of housing with added wrap-around
   health care and in-home and community based services. The applicants are
   either people with disabilities or the elderly who desire to maintain their
   independent living. Up to 65 vouchers are authorized for this purpose.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7963, 7964 (June 29, 2012).
