                                  DC REGULATIONS

TENANT SELECTION AND ASSIGNMENT[COLON] ELDERLY-ONLY DESIGNATIONS (ยง 14-6115)

6115.1. In accordance with the authority granted to the Authority under the
   Moving to Work Agreement between HUD and DCHA, dated July 2003, as more
   specifically set forth beginning with the Creative Living Solution Plan for
   Fiscal Year 2004, the Authority shall designate certain properties as
   elderly-only from time to time as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The designation of properties as elderly-only shall allow DCHA to provide
   additional opportunities for seniors to live with the neighborly support
   systems, reduction of potential intergenerational conflicts that often arise
   in mixed population properties, and the greater security that comes with a
   limited access building.
   
   
   
   (b)	In order to more effectively meet the needs of elderly families, both
   disabled and non-disabled, DCHA shall from time to time by resolution of the
   Board of Commissioners, designate as elderly-only, certain existing public
   housing properties or new construction or newly acquired properties that are
   owned or financially assisted by DCHA. Such designations shall continue from
   year to year indefinitely from the date of designation and continuing beyond
   the term of the Moving to Work agreement unless otherwise rescinded or
   modified by the Commission.
   
   
   
   (c)	For Mixed Population properties being considered for designation as
   elderly only, notice of the proposed designation shall be published in the
   DCMR, a public hearing at each such property shall be held at least 30 days
   prior to action by the Board of Commissioners, and the Commissioners shall
   take into consideration comments from each hearing as well as comments and
   testimony at the public meeting of the Commission.
   
   
   
   (d)	No disabled residents of the properties designated as elderly-only shall
   be required to move. Any units becoming vacant in the designated elderly-only
   properties shall be leased to elderly families and the properties shall
   gradually transition to elderly- only buildings.
   
   
   
   (e)	DCHA may, when feasible in cooperation with the owner of a redeveloped
   property, provide for a site-based application preference for existing elderly
   residents in Mixed Population properties requesting a transfer to a newly
   constructed or acquired elderly-only property.
   
   
   
   (f)	Disabled residents continuing to reside in an elderly-only building after
   a designation converting such building from Mixed Population status may, at
   any time, request, on a priority basis, a transfer to a vacant unit of an
   appropriate size at any other public housing property or for a housing choice
   voucher as may be available. Such residents who are mobility impaired shall
   have a priority for existing units being converted to federal accessibility
   standards, as well as newly constructed or acquired public housing units that
   meet those standards. Fully accessible units shall be available in many
   properties in all areas of the District.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 603 (January 22,
   1999), incorporating by reference the text of Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
   published at 45 DCR 7913, 7914 (November 6, 1998); as amended by Notice of
   Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 10308 (November 15, 2002); as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 5739 (July 18, 2003); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 8104 (August 20,
   2004); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 9184
   (September 24, 2004); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 51
   DCR 11330 (December 10, 2004).
