                                  DC REGULATIONS

ELIGIBILITY (§ 14-6106)

6106.1. DCHA shall consider an applicant eligible for selection for public
   housing or the Housing Choice Voucher Program if the applicant meets the
   following criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	Qualifies as a family, as defined in Section 6099 of this Chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Annual income does not exceed the income limits for admission under
   Section 6108 of this Chapter;
   
   
   
   (c)	Family meets applicant family selection criteria under Section 6109 of
   this Chapter;
   
   
   
   (d)	Family size meets the occupancy standards established by DCHA under
   Section 6110 of this Chapter; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Family provides all required information and signs all required
   documentation, including proof of citizenship or eligible immigrant status.

   6106.2. As applicants near the top of the waiting list, the Client Placement
   Division will mail written notice to the last address provided in order to
   obtain information needed for a determination of eligibility. The letter will
   state:
   
   
   
   (a)	The date and time of the eligibility interview;
   
   
   
   (b)	The location where the eligibility interview will be held; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The documents the applicant should bring to the eligibility interview.

   6106.3. A family or applicant may make one request to reschedule an
   eligibility interview for the convenience of the applicant up to thirty (30)
   days after the scheduled eligibility interview date. However, DCHA will
   reschedule an eligibility interview as a reasonable accommodation if the
   applicant can demonstrate that a disability prevented them from rescheduling
   within the prescribed time period.

   6106.4. If an applicant does not respond to notice of an eligibility interview
   and does not request an alternate appointment in advance of the scheduled
   interview date, then the applicant shall be deemed inactive on the waiting
   list for the type housing assistance offered. If the applicant informs DCHA
   that the applicant remains in need of the housing assistance at any time after
   the scheduled interview date, then the applicant shall be restored to active
   status on the waiting list for the relevant type of housing assistance with
   the applicant&#8217;s original application date. The applicant shall be
   scheduled for another eligibility interview based on the restored application
   date and any updated applicant information.

   6106.5. The eligibility interview will be held in order to collect eligibility
   data, determine eligibility and identify any special problems or needs. As
   part of the eligibility determination, an applicant will be provided the
   opportunity to complete a reasonable accommodation request. All information
   shall be verified as a part of the eligibility determination.

   6106.6. During the eligibility interview, the Client Placement Division shall
   assist the applicant in completing any forms necessary. The following forms
   are to be completed or signed by the applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Privacy Act Notice;
   
   
   
   (b)	Asset Certification Form – only assets with a value greater that $15,000
   or which generate a net income of greater than $1,000 per year must be
   reported and documented. DCHA will rely on applicants certification as to
   value of assets and whether net income from assets exceeds the threshold
   established above;
   
   
   
   (c)	Verification of Date of Birth for each Household Member;
   
   
   
   (d)	Social Security Number Certifications:
   
   
   
   (1)	Social Security Numbers for each Household Member 6 year old or older; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Certification of inability to meet the documentation requirement where an
   applicant has a Social Security Number but no documentation; or
   
   
   
   (3)	Certification that Social Security Numbers have not been issued.
   
   
   
   (e)	Picture ID for family members age eighteen (18) or older;
   
   
   
   (f)	Declaration of Section 214 Status (Non-citizen Rule);
   
   
   
   (g)	Verification of Preference or Admission Category;
   
   
   
   (h)	Verification of Full-time Student Status Form;
   
   
   
   (i)	Certification of Disability Form;
   
   
   
   (j)	Statement of Child Care Expense Form;
   
   
   
   (k)	Zero Income Statement;
   
   
   
   (l)	Verification of Income from Assets;
   
   
   
   (m)	Statement of Child Support;
   
   
   
   (n)	Income Verification (Employment, Public Assistance, Social Security); and
   
   
   
   (o)	Other Forms as may be required.

   6106.7. At the end of the eligibility interview, the Client Placement Division
   shall provide the applicant with written notification of any missing or
   incomplete forms, information on how to determine if any debt remains unpaid
   to DCHA or any HCVP landlord, or any additional information which is to be
   provided by the applicant.

   6106.8. If an applicant cannot complete all the necessary forms at the time of
   the interview, the interviewer may request that any additional required forms
   be completed by the applicant within a specified timeframe not to exceed ten
   (10) days.

   6106.9. A written receipt shall be provided to the applicant for any
   additional information provided.

   6106.10. Applicants who do not provide the additional items requested by DCHA
   pursuant to Subsection 6106.8 within ten (10) days, may request one (1)
   extension of time not to exceed ten (10) days.

   6106.11. Applicants who do not provide additional items requested by DCHA
   pursuant to Subsection 6106.8 within ten (10) days, or within any additional
   period allowed under Subsection 6106.9, shall be removed from the waiting
   list.

   6106.12. If an applicant experiences difficulty in securing verification in
   the prescribed form, DCHA may accept other documents to expedite the
   certification process (for example, baptismal or school records could be used
   as proof of birth).
   
   
   
   6106. 13	BRIEFINGS
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Applicants must attend a full briefing prior to issuance of a Housing Choice
   Voucher unless this requirement is waived by the Executive Director in
   emergency cases.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DCHA will mail notice of the briefing via U.S. mail to the last address
   provided by the applicant or existing participant.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Families or applicants who provide prior notice of inability to attend a
   briefing will automatically be scheduled for the next available briefing and
   notified by mail of its date and time. If a family or applicant fails to
   attend a scheduled briefing another notice will be mailed for a second
   briefing date.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If an applicant fails to attend two (2) scheduled briefings, and does not
   notify DCHA in advance of their inability to attend the second briefing
   appointment, then the applicant shall be deemed inactive on the waiting list.
   If the applicant informs DCHA that the applicant remains in need of the
   housing assistance at any time after becoming inactive then the applicant
   shall be restored to active status on the waiting list with the
   applicant&#8217;s original application date.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If vouchers of the type that would have been issued to the applicant at the
   missed briefings are still available and the inactive applicant asserts the
   need for housing assistance less than thirty (30) days after initial
   eligibility determination then a new briefing appointment shall be made with
   the applicant.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   If the inactive applicant requests assistance more than thirty (30) days after
   the initial eligibility determination by DCHA, and vouchers of the type that
   would have been issued to the applicant at the missed briefings are still
   available; DCHA shall schedule the restored applicant for another eligibility
   interview.  If the applicant is determined to be eligible, the applicant shall
   be scheduled for a full briefing. If vouchers of the type that would have been
   issued are not available, the applicant will be restored to the waiting list
   as an active applicant with the date and time of the original application.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 7973, 7990 (December
   26, 1986); and Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 603 (January 22,
   1999), incorporating by reference the text of Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
   published at 45 DCR 7913, 7914 (November 6, 1998); as amended by Notice of
   Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 10308 (November 15, 2002); as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 5739 (July 18, 2003); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 10352 (December 5,
   2003), as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 2720
   (April 10, 2009); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR
   8233, 8234 (September 23, 2011).
