                                  DC REGULATIONS

TENANT ADMISSION AND OCCUPANCY[COLON] REDEVELOPED AND SPECIAL NEEDS PROPERTIES
(§ 14-6113)

6113.1. Scope. Redeveloped Properties are mixed-finance communities owned by
   private entities which communities are created through HOPE VI or other public
   funding combined with private financing, which have some or all of their units
   assisted by operating funds provided by DCHA. Special Needs Properties are
   DCHA owned-or privately owned units assisted with operating funds provided by
   DCHA and managed by service providers for residents with special needs.

   6113.2. Overview
   
   
   
   (a)	Redeveloped Properties and Special Needs Properties because of the unique
   nature of their substantial private funding and/or private ownership or
   management have admissions and occupancy rules that are tailored to the
   particular property, type of occupancy and need to coordinate with other
   supportive service programs.
   
   
   
   (b)	This Section 6113 sets forth the regulatory framework for the property
   based rules and ongoing DCHA oversight or approvals governing occupancy and
   re-occupancy, selection criteria, screening criteria, application processing,
   waiting lists, lease provisions, income determinations and grievance
   procedures.
   
   
   
   (c)	DCHA pursuant to the MTW Agreement entered into with the U.S. Department
   of Housing and Urban Development, dated July 25, 2004, provides that DCHA may,
   notwithstanding certain provisions of the Housing Act of 1937 and regulations
   issued pursuant thereto, adopt local rules for the governance of its public
   housing and housing choice voucher programs. Thus, this Section 6113, in each
   of the areas identified hereinabove, for all properties, officially designated
   as Redeveloped or Special Needs Properties by the Board of Commissioners, are
   the applicable rules therefor.

   6113.3. Selection Criteria
   
   
   
   (a)	The selection criteria, including all priorities and preferences for
   applicants for initial occupancy following construction and re-occupancy upon
   vacancy of units at Redeveloped or Special Needs Properties that are receiving
   operating subsidies from DCHA, are those incorporated in a regulatory and
   operating agreement by and between the owner and DCHA after consultation with
   representatives of the community and former and/or prospective residents.
   These selection criteria are hereinafter referred to herein as the
   &#8220;General Selection Criteria&#8221;.
   
   
   
   (b)	While the General Selection Criteria may vary by property, selection and
   screening criteria for all properties shall include the mandatory federal
   standards with respect to certain types of criminal activity as specified in
   federal statute.
   
   
   
   (c)	For UFAS-Accessible Units, besides the General Selection Criteria,
   occupancy of the Units shall be to a household qualified for the available
   bedroom size of the Unit and a verified need for the features of a
   UFAS-Accessible Unit in the following order of priority, with date and time of
   application or transfer request where there are multiple applicants within any
   one priority:
   
   
   
   (1)	First, to a qualified returning resident who previously resided in one of
   the developments being redeveloped.
   
   
   
   (2)	Second, to a qualified applicant referred by DCHA from its list of
   households designated in 2006 for interim assistance in accordance with the
   provisions of the Amended VCA.
   
   
   
   (3)	Third, to a qualified applicant referred by DCHA from its list of
   households designated in 2007 for interim assistance in accordance with the
   provisions of the Amended VCA.
   
   
   
   (4)	Fourth, to a qualified DCHA resident on DCHA’s Transfer List;
   
   
   
   (5)	Fifth, to a qualified public housing applicant on DCHA&#8217;s Waiting
   List;
   
   
   
   (6)	Sixth, to a qualified Housing Choice Voucher.

   6113.4. Application Process. Each property shall develop its own process for
   taking applications, subject to review and approval by DCHA.
   
   
   
   (a)	Application forms for returning residents and applicants are developed by
   the owner for the redeveloped property and shall be subject to review and
   approval by DCHA.
   
   
   
   (b)	Completed applications for returning residents, transferring residents or
   applicants shall be accepted at the property and shall be reviewed and
   approved in accordance with the criteria approved in accordance with
   Subsection 6113.2.
   
   
   
   (c)	The occupancy and re-occupancy application and selection process shall be
   monitored by DCHA&#8217;s Client Placement Division.

   6113.5. Waiting Lists
   
   
   
   (a)	Where the number of returning residents, transferring residents or new
   applicants exceeds the number of available units, applicants seeking to be
   housed at the property shall be placed on a waiting list.
   
   
   
   (1)	Waiting lists shall be maintained by the manager of the property based on
   the date and time of application and in accordance with the selection criteria
   developed for the property and approved by DCHA in accordance with Subsection
   6113.2; or
   
   
   
   (2)	At certain properties, a basic eligibility determination for public
   housing shall be made by DCHA&#8217;s Client Placement Division and eligible
   tenants shall be referred to the property where the property&#8217;s selection
   criteria shall be applied.
   
   
   
   (b)	A list of all properties, along with the status of each site based waiting
   list as either open or closed, shall be available from the DCHA’s Client
   Placement Division. When a property makes a determination to open its waiting
   list, notice shall be provided to the DCHA resident advisory board and
   published in the District of Columbia Register.

   6113.6. Lease Terms
   
   
   
   (a)	Leases for Redeveloped Properties or Special Needs Properties may be
   developed by the owner or manager, subject to the approval of DCHA for
   compliance with applicable local and federal provisions as well as DCHA’s
   regulations, including the requirements regarding Special Supplements to Lease
   governed by the provisions of Section 6112.4 of this Title 14.
   
   
   
   (b)	Provisions relating to rent, rent collection, security deposits, excess
   utility charges, and such other provisions as DCHA may approve, may vary from
   the DCHA standard form of lease.

   6113.7. Income Determinations. Certification and recertification of income
   shall be performed by the manager of the property and monitored periodically
   by DCHA for compliance with applicable DCHA and federal regulations. At
   certain Special Needs Properties designated by DCHA, income for certification
   and recertification purposes may be disregarded for up to two years of
   occupancy.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 7973, 8001 (December
   26, 1986); and Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 603 (January 22,
   1999), incorporating by reference the text of Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
   published at 45 DCR 7913, 7914 (November 6, 1998); as amended by Notice of
   Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 5739 (July 18, 2003); as amended by
   Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 9184 (September 24, 2004); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 11326 (December 10,
   2004); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 9290
   (November 17, 2006).
