                                  DC REGULATIONS

HUMAN CARE SERVICES (§ 27-1905)

1905.1. The Director shall, at least annually, determine in writing that the
   human care procurement method is appropriate for contracts for classes of
   human care services for which the quantity, rate of utilization, delivery
   areas, or specific beneficiaries of the services cannot be accurately
   estimated at the outset of the procurement process.

   1905.2. The contracting officer shall, at least annually, publicly announce
   all requirements for human care services in accordance with Chapter 13 of this
   title, and on the Internet site maintained by the Office of Contracting and
   Procurement.

   1905.3. The contracting officer shall give public notice of general
   requirements for human care services, and issue a request for qualifications
   on a form prescribed by the Director, inviting interested service providers to
   respond in writing with a statement of their qualifications to perform the
   required services.

   1905.4. The contracting officer shall use the procedures set forth in §§1905
   through 1908 of this chapter to procure human care services rather than the
   solicitation or source selection procedures specified elsewhere in this title.

   1905.5. Compliance with §§ 1905 through 1908 of this chapter shall
   constitute a competitive procedure for the procurement of human care services.

   1905.6. The contracting officer shall certify the financial and professional
   responsibility of each potential contractor based on the following criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	The type of business or organization and its history;
   
   
   
   (b)	The resumes and professional qualifications of the business or
   organization&#8217;s staff, including relevant professional and/or business
   licenses, affiliations, and specialties;
   
   
   
   (c)	Information attesting to financial capability, including financial
   statements;
   
   
   
   (d)	Specialized experience and technical competence in the type of work
   required;
   
   
   
   (e)	Capacity to accomplish the work in the required time;
   
   
   
   (f)	A summary of similar contracts awarded to the service provider, and the
   service provider&#8217;s performance of those contracts;
   
   
   
   (g)	A certification of compliance with all applicable tax and filing
   requirements;
   
   
   
   (h)	A statement attesting to compliance with wage, hour, workplace safety and
   other standards of labor law;
   
   
   
   (i)	A statement attesting to compliance with federal and District equal
   employment opportunity law;
   
   
   
   (j)	Information about pending lawsuits or investigations, and judgments,
   indictments, or convictions against the service provider or its proprietors,
   partners, directors, officers, or managers; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Acceptability under other appropriate characteristics of a prospective
   service provider.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1492 (February 26, 1988); as
   amended by Emergency and Proposed rulemaking published at 47 DCR 8590 (October
   20, 2000) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 5819
   (June 22, 2001).
