                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXPERT AND CONSULTING SERVICES (ยง 27-1901)

1901.1. A contracting officer may contract for expert and consulting services
   when essential to the agency&#8217;s mission, when necessary to comply with a
   court order, or when those services would achieve maximum effectiveness or
   economy of operations. Expert and consulting services may include, but are not
   limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Specialized opinions or professional or technical advice not available
   within the agency or from another agency;
   
   
   
   (b)	Outside points of view, to avoid too limited a judgment on critical
   issues;
   
   
   
   (c)	Advice on developments in industry, university, or foundation research;
   
   
   
   (d)	The opinions of experts whose national or international prestige can
   contribute to the success of important projects; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Citizen advisory participation in developing or implementing District
   programs that by their nature or by statutory provision require citizen
   participation.

   1901.2. Except as provided in Section 1901.4 below, a contracting officer
   shall not contract for expert or consulting services for any of the following
   purposes:
   
   
   
   (a)	To perform work of a policy-making, decision-making, or managerial nature
   that is the direct responsibility of agency officials;
   
   
   
   (b)	To bypass or undermine personnel ceilings, pay limitations, or competitive
   employment procedures; or
   
   
   
   (c)	To specifically aid in influencing or enacting legislation in the Council
   of the District of Columbia.

   1901.3. Except as provided in Section 1901.4 below, the contracting officer
   shall ensure that a contract for expert or consulting services does not
   establish or allow any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	An employer-employee relationship between the District and the contractor;
   
   
   
   (b)	Detailed control or supervision by District personnel of the contractor or
   its employees with respect to the day-to-day operations of the contractor or
   the methods of accomplishment of the services;
   
   
   
   (c)	A regularly established tour of duty for the contractor; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Supervision of District employees by the contractor.

   1901.4. When an expert or consultant is engaged by a court-appointed receiver
   or, upon review by and the concurrence of the Attorney General, by any other
   contracting officer, pursuant to or in order to comply with a court order,
   Sections 1901.2 and 1901.3 shall not apply.

   1901.5. The contracting officer shall determine in writing that the contract
   for expert or consulting services rather than the use of District employees is
   in the best interests of the District for one (1) or more of the following
   reasons:
   
   
   
   (a)	The use of a contract for services is substantially more economical,
   feasible, or necessary due to unusual or emergency circumstances;
   
   
   
   (b)	The services are needed for short periods only or are needed in connection
   with a specific project that is to be completed within a specific period; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The services are difficult to obtain due to scarcity of skilled personnel
   or because the services are of a highly specialized nature.

   1901.6. The contracting officer shall be responsible for determining whether a
   request by an agency to contract for expert or consulting services, regardless
   of dollar value, is justified under ยง 1901.5 or whether the services must be
   obtained in accordance with District personnel law and regulations. The
   contracting officer&#8217;s determination shall be final.

   1901.7. Before processing any contractual action or solicitation for expert or
   consulting services, the contracting officer shall ensure that the applicable
   provisions of this chapter have been complied with and that the required
   documentation is complete and included in the contract file.

   1901.8. For procurement of expert or consulting services, the contracting
   officer shall ensure that the following are accomplished:
   
   
   
   (a)	Each requirement is appropriate and fully justified in a written
   determination and findings. The justification shall include a statement of
   need and the requesting official&#8217;s certification that the services do
   not unnecessarily duplicate any previously performed work of services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Each work statement is specific and complete, and states a fixed period of
   performance within which the services are to be provided;
   
   
   
   (c)	Each contract is awarded pursuant to the Act and this title;
   
   
   
   (d)	Appropriate disclosure is required of, and warning is given to, contractor
   personnel to avoid conflicts of interest;
   
   
   
   (e)	Each contract is properly administered and monitored to ensure that
   performance meets the requirements of the contract; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Each proposed contract action is properly authorized by a written, signed
   document.

   1901.9. A contract for expert or consulting services shall not be extended by
   modification. When additional services are required, a new contract shall be
   awarded subject to the requirements and limitations of this section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1490 (February 26, 1988); as
   amended by Emergency and Proposed rulemaking published at 47 DCR 8590 (October
   20, 2000) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Emergency and Proposed rulemaking published
   at 48 DCR 548 (January 19, 2001) [EXPIRED].
