                                  DC REGULATIONS

REAL PROPERTY APPRAISAL[COLON] QUALIFICATIONS (ยง 27-1919)

1919.1. The Department of Administrative Services (or other agency with
   authority to contract for real property appraisal services) shall receive and
   maintain data on firms and individuals that request to be considered for
   District real property appraisal contracts.

   1919.2. To be considered for a real property appraisal contract, a firm or
   individual shall file an appropriate qualification data form with the
   Department of Administrative Services, or other agency, as appropriate.

   1919.3. The office maintaining the real property appraisal qualification data
   files shall classify each firm or individual with respect to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Location;
   
   
   
   (b)	Specialized experience;
   
   
   
   (c)	Professional capabilities; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Capacity, with respect to the scope of work that the firm or individual
   can undertake.

   1919.4. Each office maintaining qualification data files shall review and
   update each file at least once each year. The review and update shall include
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Encouraging firms and individuals to submit an updated statement of
   qualifications and performance report;
   
   
   
   (b)	Reviewing and updating the classification of each firm or individual;
   
   
   
   (c)	Recording any contract awards made to each firm in the preceding year;
   
   
   
   (d)	Ensuring that the file contains a copy of each pertinent performance
   evaluation report;
   
   
   
   (e)	Discarding any material that is no longer pertinent which has not been
   updated within the previous three (3) years; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Posting the date of the review in the file.

   1919.5. Evaluation boards and other appropriate District employees shall have
   access to data files.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1501 (February 26, 1988); as
   amended by Emergency rulemaking published at 47 DCR 8590 (October 20, 2000)
   [EXPIRED].
