                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACTING FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES (§ 27-1902)

1902.1. Notwithstanding §1901, a contracting officer may contract with an
   information technology (&#8220;IT&#8221;) consultant as a personal services
   contractor if the IT consultant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provides services to the Office of the Chief Technology Officer;
   
   
   
   (b)	Is unable to be hired as a District employee because the consultant is
   requiring compensation that cannot be accommodated through District pay
   schedules; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Is deemed critical by the Mayor to the IT program of the Office of the
   Chief Technology Officer.

   1902.2. A personal services contractor hired under § 1902 may, where
   applicable, exercise managerial and supervisory authority over District
   employees, and be subject to direct control or supervision by District
   personnel.

   1902.3. A personal services contract authorized by § 1902 may establish or
   allow any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	An employer-employee relationship between the District and the contractor;
   
   
   
   (b)	Detailed control or supervision by District personnel of the contractor or
   its employees with respect to the day-to-day operations of the contractor or
   the methods of accomplishment of the services;
   
   
   
   (c)	A regularly established tour of duty for the contractor;
   
   
   
   (d)	Supervision of District employees by the contractor; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Performance of work of a policy-making, decision-making, or managerial
   nature.

   1902.4. The contracting officer shall determine in writing, based upon
   certification of facts by the Chief Technology Officer, that the criteria set
   forth in § 1902.1 are met and that the use of a personal services contract
   for IT consultant services is in the best interests of the District.

   1902.5. Before processing any contractual action or solicitation for IT
   consultant personal services, the contracting officer shall ensure that the
   applicable provisions of this Chapter have been complied with and that the
   required documentation is complete and included in the contract file.

   1902.6. For procurement of IT consultant personal services, the contracting
   officer shall ensure that the following are accomplished:
   
   
   
   (a)	Each requirement is appropriate and fully justified in a written
   determination and findings. The justification shall include a statement of
   need and the requesting official&#8217;s certification that the services do
   not unnecessarily duplicate any previously performed work or services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Each work statement is specific and complete, and states a fixed period of
   performance within which the services are to be provided;
   
   
   
   (c)	Each contract is awarded pursuant to the Act and this title;
   
   
   
   (d)	Appropriate disclosure is required of, and warning is given to, contractor
   personnel to avoid conflicts of interest;
   
   
   
   (e)	Each contract is properly administered and monitored to ensure that
   performance meets the requirements of the contract;
   
   
   
   (f)	Each proposed contract action is properly authorized by a written, signed
   document; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Each proposed contract is approved, in writing, by the City Administrator
   prior to award of the contract.

   1902.7. A contract for IT consultant personal services may be extended by
   modification, but in no event shall the period of the base contract and any
   extensions exceed three (3) years.

   1902.8. Federal and District statutes or regulations applicable to District
   employees concerning ethics shall apply to all contractors under this chapter.
   All contracts entered into pursuant to this chapter shall comply with the laws
   and regulations governing ethics in the District government.

   1902.9. The contracting officer may waive the insurance coverage requirements
   of §2712 of chapter 27 of this title when the Chief Technology Officer
   submits a written determination that waiver of the insurance coverage
   requirements is in the best interests of the District.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency and Proposed rulemaking published at 47 DCR 8590 (October
   20, 2000) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Emergency rulemaking published at 48 DCR
   8989 (September 28, 2001) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published
   at 50 DCR 1531 (February 14, 2003); as amended by Emergency rulemaking
   published at 51 DCR 5265 (May 21, 2004) [EXPIRED].
