                                  DC REGULATIONS

REAL PROPERTY APPRAISAL SERVICES EVALUATION BOARDS (ยง 27-1916)

1916.1. The director of the agency procuring real property appraisal services
   shall appoint one (1) or more permanent or ad hoc real property appraisal
   evaluation boards, which shall be composed of members who, collectively, have
   experience in real estate, real property appraisal, and District and related
   procurement matters.

   1916.2. Members of evaluation boards shall include highly qualified
   professional employees of the District and may include private practitioners
   of real estate, appraisal, or related professions.

   1916.3. The director of the agency procuring real property appraisal services
   shall designate one (1) District employee member of each board as the
   chairperson of that evaluation board.

   1916.4. No firm or individual shall be eligible for award of a real property
   appraisal contract during the period in which any of its principals or
   associates are participating as members of the awarding evaluation board, or
   when any member of the awarding evaluation board has a financial interest in
   the firm.

   1916.5. The evaluation board shall perform the following functions under the
   general direction of the contracting officer:
   
   
   
   (a)	Review the current data files on eligible firms and responses to the
   public notice required in accordance with chapter 13 of this title;
   
   
   
   (b)	Evaluate the firms or individuals in accordance with the criteria
   prescribed in ยง1915;
   
   
   
   (c)	Hold discussions with at least three (3) of the most highly qualified
   firms concerning concepts and the relative utility of alternative methods of
   furnishing the required services (but not including appraisal fees), when the
   prospective real property appraisal contract is estimated to exceed ten
   thousand dollars ($10,000); and
   
   
   
   (d)	Prepare a selection report for the contracting officer recommending, in
   order of preference, at least three (3) firms that are considered to be the
   most highly qualified to perform the required services.

   1916.6. The selection report shall include a description of the discussions
   and evaluation conducted by the board to allow the contracting officer to
   review the considerations upon which the recommendations are based.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1499 (February 26, 1988); as
   amended by Emergency rulemaking published at 47 DCR 8590 (October 20, 2000)
   [EXPIRED].
