                                  DC REGULATIONS

COUNCIL OF CHAIRPERSONS (§ 19-3520)

3520.1. The Council of Chairpersons shall be the official policymaking body
   for the Neighborhood Planning Councils.  The policymaking responsibilities of
   the Council of Chairpersons shall include, but not be limited to, prior review
   of all policies and regulations developed for the Neighborhood Planning
   Councils by the Administrator, CBPA. Approval of policies and regulations will
   be done in consultation between the Administrator, CBPA, and the Council of
   Chairpersons.

   3520.2. The Council of Chairpersons shall serve as liaison between the
   Neighborhood Planning Councils and the D.C. Department of Parks and
   Recreation, Community-Based Programs Administration, the United Planning
   Organization, and Federal, District and private agencies and institutions,
   with regard to the operation of area programs. The Council of Chairpersons
   shall coordinate NPC activities on a city-wide basis and serve in any capacity
   necessary to insure the effective and efficient operation of NPC programs and
   activities. This provision is not intended to abrogate the role and
   responsibility of the Administrator, CBPA, as liaison to the Neighborhood
   Planning Councils and the Council of Chairpersons, and to other agencies as
   appropriate, but to define the role of the Council of Chairpersons in
   relationship to the Neighborhood Planning Councils.

   3520.3. The Council of Chairpersons, by majority vote of its members, may take
   positions and pass resolutions on any issue, legislation, or pending
   developments that impact on youth in the District of Columbia.

   3520.4. Positions adopted by the Council of Chairpersons may be presented
   before the Council of the District of Columbia, Board of Education, Congress,
   or other body deemed appropriate by the Council of Chairpersons.

   3520.5. Each NPC shall be represented in the Council by its Adult Chairperson
   and its Youth Chairperson.  In their absence, the ranking elected adult and
   youth officers present shall represent the NPC.

   3520.6. In the event that no elected officer can attend, the NPC Adult
   Chairperson may designate another adult member to represent the NPC.  A youth
   representative shall be designated by the Youth Chairperson.

   3520.7. If by the time of a regularly scheduled meeting of the Council there
   has been no designated representative from one of the 20 NPCs, then the
   Council can recognize a member of that NPC who is present and in good standing
   as the official representative for that day.

   3520.8. The Officers of the Council shall be an Adult and a Youth Chairperson;
   an Adult and Youth Vice Chairperson; and Adult and Youth Recording Secretary;
   and an Adult Corresponding Secretary and Adult Treasurer.

   3520.9. The Officers of the Council shall be elected from the membership for a
   term of two (2) years.   No more than one officer shall come from any one NPC.
    Election shall be by majority vote, and voting shall be by ballot. Each
   officer shall serve until his successor is elected and installed.

   3520.10. Any vacancy occurring among the officers during their term for any
   reason shall be filled through the election process as outlined in the
   Council’s Bylaws, at the next regular meeting following the one at which the
   vacancy is announced.

   3520.11. Absences from three consecutive regular meetings shall constitute
   grounds for removal from office.  Notice of such removal shall be given to the
   officer in writing.

   3520.12. The Adult Chairperson shall preside at all regular and special
   meetings of the Council and the Executive Committee, except as otherwise
   provided in the Council’s Bylaws; shall keep the membership advised of
   developments relative to NPC operations; shall maintain continuous contact
   with UPO and government agencies with regard to NPC funding and activities;
   and shall represent the membership whenever and wherever necessary to promote
   the best interest of the NPCs.

   3520.13. The Youth Chairperson shall be under the general supervision of the
   Adult Chairperson and shall preside over not less than one-third (1/3) of all
   regular meetings held.  The Youth Chairperson shall represent the interests of
   the Youth	membership whenever and wherever necessary to promote the best
   interest of the NPCs.

   3520.14. The Vice Chairpersons shall serve in the absence of their respective
   Chairpersons at meetings of the Council, and/or the Executive Committee, and
   shall assist the Chairpersons in the performance of their duties as
   representatives of all the NPCs.

   3520.15. The Recording Secretaries shall be responsible for recording and
   maintaining the minutes of the regular and special meetings of the Council and
   Executive Committee, and shall send a copy of the minutes to each NPC
   Chairperson (Adult and Youth) prior to the date of the next meeting and shall
   perform such duties as may be requested by the Chairpersons. The Youth
   Secretary shall record at least one-third (1/3) of the meetings during the
   year.

   3520.16. The Corresponding Secretary shall notify the Council members of
   regular and special meetings; notify the Council officers of Executive
   Committee meetings, and perform such other duties as may be requested by the
   Chair.  In the absence of the Recording Secretary, the Corresponding Secretary
   shall record and distribute the minutes of regular and special meetings and
   Executive Committee meetings.

   3520.17. The Treasurer shall keep the financial records of the Council and
   make reports at regular intervals to the Council membership.

   3520.18. In the absence of the Chairpersons and Vice Chairpersons of the
   Council, the position of Chair shall be filled by the Council officers in the
   order named in the Council’s Bylaws.

   3520.19. The Council shall establish an Executive Committee, which shall
   conduct the necessary business of the Council between regular meetings.

   3520.20. The Council shall establish a Publicity Committee, which shall be
   responsible for all publicity and promotional activities of the NPCs.

   3520.21. The Council shall establish a Grievance Committee, which shall handle
   any matter referred to it by the Council and shall report its actions and
   recommendations to the Council.

   3520.22. The Council shall establish a Legislative Committee, which shall be
   responsible for reviewing the legal and operational documents of the Council
   and NPCs annually; shall act as an oversight committee for NPC elections; and
   shall recommend such actions as may be necessary pertaining thereto.

   3520.23. The Council shall establish a Budget Committee, which shall insure
   the participation of the NPCs in the development of the annual Fiscal Year
   budget for NPC support, as per D.C. Law 1-93; and which shall develop and
   oversee the budget of the Council.

   3520.24. Special Committees may be created by the Chair to serve a special
   need. Such Committees shall be dissolved at the completion of the assignment.

   3520.25. The Chair of each Standing and Special Committee shall be appointed
   by the
   
   Chairs of the Council and shall serve at their discretion.

   3520.26. Each Standing Committee shall consist of not less than three (3)
   members. Each Committee shall have youth representation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 2521, 2531-34 (April 10, 1992).
