                                  DC REGULATIONS

NEIGHBORHOOD PLANNING COUNCIL OPERATING PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS (§ 19-3516)

3516.1. Beginning October 1, 1991, all programs supported either by District
   Appropriated or Community Services Block Grant funds shall establish quarterly
   spending plans for all items of purchase to include personnel expenditures.

   3516.2. NPC Program Operators shall be required to explain, in writing to the
   NPC’s Chairpersons and the Administrator, CBPA, why spending is out of line
   with the plan, if the program is identified by the Administrator, CBPA, as
   overspending or underspending by ten percent (10%).

   3516.3. All monies remaining, as a result of underspending, for 15 days after
   the end of the planned spending quarter shall be declared lapsed and shall be
   subject to reassignment as follows:
   
   
   
   a.	The Program Operator and the NPC’s Chairpersons shall immediately submit
   to the CBPA Administrator a plan for reprogramming funds and spending them in
   line with the original purpose and objectives of the program.  Copies of all
   such plans shall be provided to the Council of Chairpersons.
   
   
   
   b.	All NPC funds remaining unspent 45 days after the end of the planned
   spending quarter will be placed in the custody of the Council of Chairpersons
   for reprogramming among eligible NPC programs.  All lapsed NPC funds remaining
   unspent as of May 15 of each fiscal year shall be redistributed immediately to
   eligible NPC programs by the Council of Chairpersons.
   
   
   
   c.	The CBPA Administrator shall ensure the immediate distribution of lapsed
   funds in accordance with the directive of the Council of Chairpersons.

   3516.4. [RESERVED]

   3516.5. Beginning with fiscal year 1991, if the Community Development
   Specialist evaluation shows that the actual attendance in a program is
   consistently below the planned attendance (number served), the Administrator,
   CBPA, shall take action as follows:
   
   
   
   a.	First occurrence:  Warning to Program Operator to increase attendance to
   planned level.
   
   
   
   b.	Second Occurrence:  Community Development Specialists shall immediately
   assist Program Operator through use of public service announcements,
   distribution of flyers and other such actions.

   3516.6. If the NPC, for any reason, fails to submit its proposal for funding
   by the deadline set by CBPA, the Administrator, CBPA shall immediately move to
   approve and set funding so as not to inhibit the timely start of program
   operations.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 2521, 2529-30 (April 10, 1992).
