                                  DC REGULATIONS

OFFICERS (§ 19-3507)

3507.1. The officers of a Neighborhood Planning Council shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   a.	Adult Chairperson
   
   
   
   b.	Adult Vice-Chairperson
   
   
   
   c.	Youth Chairperson
   
   
   
   d.	Youth Vice-Chairperson
   
   
   
   e.	Adult Secretary
   
   
   
   f.	Youth Secretary
   
   
   
   g.	Treasurer

   3507.2. [RESERVED]

   3507.3. The regular election for Neighborhood Planning Councils shall be held
   on November 7, 1992 and every two years thereafter on the date of the general
   election for members of the Council of the District of Columbia.  The NPC
   Council members shall elect, from among themselves, all officers.

   3507.4. Each officer shall serve for two years or until his successor is
   elected and qualified. No person may serve more than two consecutive terms in
   the same office.

   3507.5. Any vacancy among the elected officials, through death, resignation or
   other cause, shall be filled by the members of the Council in a special
   election to be held at the next meeting of the Council’s members or as soon
   thereafter as possible. The Council Chairperson may appoint an acting officer
   until such a time as a special election can be held.

   3507.6. Any officer who misses three (3) consecutive meetings of the Board
   without cause shall automatically cease to be a Board Member and his office
   shall become vacant.  An officer shall be removed from office for any conduct
   deemed detrimental and damaging to the NPC.  Such a removal shall require a
   four-fifths (4/5) vote of Council members present after proper notification of
   such a meeting to do so as set forth in these By-laws.

   3507.7. Any officer removed shall have the opportunity to be heard.

   3507.8. The Adult Chairperson shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the
   Council. He shall:
   
   
   
   a.	preside at all meetings of the Council’s Board and of the Council’s
   members;
   
   
   
   b.	cast the deciding vote in case of a tie on all matters coming before the
   Council or
   
   Council Board;
   
   
   
   c.	have a general and active management of the affairs of the Council and
   shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Council’s Board are carried
   into effect;
   
   
   
   d.	execute all contracts and agreements authorized by the Council’s Board;
   
   
   
   e.	have the general supervision of all the other officers of the Council and
   of the Chairpersons of its committees and shall see that their duties are
   properly performed;
   
   
   
   f.	have the authority to fill temporarily any unexpired term of a Board Member
   created through death, resignation or other cause, except in the case of a
   Chairperson, in accordance with section 3507.5.

   3507.9. No Chairperson shall be able to appoint a successor to himself. If the
   office of Chairperson becomes vacant, the Vice-Chairperson shall assume the
   duties of the Chairperson until an election can be held in accordance with
   section 3507.5.

   3507.10. The Chairperson shall promptly report to the Council’s Board and to
   its members, all matters within his knowledge, which in the interest of the
   Council, should be brought to their notice.

   3507.11. Under the general supervision of the Adult Chairperson, the Youth
   Chairperson shall preside over not less than one-third of all regular meetings
   held.

   3507.12. The Youth Chairperson shall represent the interests of the youth
   within the Council’s boundaries.

   3507.13. The Youth Chairperson shall promptly report to the Council’s Board
   and to its members all matters within his knowledge, which in the interest of
   the Council, should be brought to their notice.

   3507.14. In the absence or disability of the Adult Chairperson, the Adult
   Vice- Chairperson shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the
   Adult Chairperson. The Adult Vice-Chairperson shall have such other powers and
   duties as may be prescribed by the Board or by the Adult Chairperson.

   3507.15. In the absence or disability of the Youth Chairperson, the Youth
   Vice- Chairperson shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the
   Youth Chairperson. The Youth Vice-Chairperson shall have such other powers and
   duties as may be prescribed by the Board or by the Youth Chairperson.

   3507.16. The Adult Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Council’s
   Board and of its member and shall perform the following functions:
   
   
   
   a.	Record all votes and take minutes of all proceedings;
   
   
   
   b.	Assist the NPC in giving proper notice of all meetings of the Board and of
   the Council’s members;
   
   
   
   c.	Keep the Council’s membership register which shall be open to inspection
   by any member of the Council;
   
   
   
   d.	Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board or by the
   Chairperson.

   3507.17. The Youth Secretary shall assist the Adult Secretary at all meetings.
   In the absence or disability of the Adult Secretary, the Youth Secretary shall
   perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary. He shall have
   such other powers or duties as may be prescribed by the Board or by the Youth
   Chairperson.

   3507.18. The Treasurer shall have the custody of the Council’s funds and
   securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and
   disbursements in books belonging to the Council, which books shall be open to
   inspection by any member of the Council upon five (5) days written notice. 
   The Treasurer shall also perform the following functions:
   
   
   
   a.	Deposit all monies and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit
   of the Council in such depositories as may be designated by the Council’s
   Board;
   
   
   
   b.	Disburse the funds of the Council as may be ordered by the Council’s
   Board, taking proper vouchers for such disbursement, and shall render to the
   Chairperson, the Council’s Board, and the Council’s members at each
   regular meeting or whenever they may require it, an account of all
   transactions as Treasurer and of the financial conditions of the Council; and
   
   
   
   c.	Perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the
   Council’s Board or by the Chairperson.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 2521, 2523-26 (April 10, 1992);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 8202 (November 6, 1992).
