                                  DC REGULATIONS

OBLIGATIONS OF NTCP PARTICIPANTS (§ 29-3104)

3104.1. In exchange for financial assistance, the applicant shall be obligated
   to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be enrolled as a full-time student in a District of Columbia institution
   of higher education currently accredited by of nationally recognized
   accrediting agency or association;
   
   
   
   (b)	Pursue a course of study leading to a certificate or degree as determined
   by the educational institution, but not including graduate study, that is not
   required by D.C. Law 7-32;
   
   
   
   (c)	Maintain satisfactory progress as determined by the institution of higher
   education the student is attending;
   
   
   
   (d)	Practice nursing on a full-time basis for a participating D.C. agency for
   a period of not less than two (2) years for each year that he or she received
   tuition assistance.
   
   
   
   (e)	Fulfill the Practice obligation described in paragraph (d) immediately
   after completing the educational degree program for which financial assistance
   was awarded, unless the Director shall permit extra time in order to meet
   licensing requirements; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Provide, as required by the Director, evidence of compliance with the
   requirements described in this subsection.

   3104.2. If the trainee fails to meet the conditions described in § 3104.1 and
   the Director determines that the trainee is no longer pursuing a course of
   study leading to a certificate or degree, the trainee shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Repay the amount of financial aid received, prosaic according to the
   fraction of the practice obligation not completed, plus interest, as
   determined by the Director; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Pay all reasonable collection costs as determined by the Director.

   3104.3. The interest charge shall accrue from the date of the initial
   financial assistance payment, if the Director has determined that the trainee
   is no longer pursuing a course of study leading to a certificate or degree, or
   the day after that portion of the financial assistance period for which the
   practice obligation has been fulfilled.

   3104.4. The interest charge shall be adjusted annually, from the time interest
   begins to accrue to the time the repayment period begins, as described in §
   3104.6, and is set at a rate which is the greater of either fourteen percent
   (14%) or five percent (5%) above the average ninety-one (91) day Treasury bill
   rate for the most recent quarter ending March 31.

   3104.5. The interest charge applicable during the repayment period is the
   greater of these rates as determined when the repayment schedule is
   established.

   3104.6. If the trainee is required to repay his or her tuition assistance, as
   required by § 3104.2, he or she shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Enter repayment status on the first day of the first calendar month, after
   the agency has determined that the trainee is no longer pursing a course of
   study leading to a certificate or degree, but not before six (6) months have
   elapsed after the cessation of the trainee’s full-time enrollment in a
   course of study; on the date the trainee informs the Director he or she does
   not plan to fulfill the practice obligation; or the latest date on which the
   trainee must have begun practicing in order to have completed with practice
   obligation within eighteen (18) months after completing the course of studies
   for which the financial assistance was awarded, as determined by the Director;
   and
   
   
   
   (b)	Make payments to the Director which cover principal, interest, and
   collection costs according to a schedule established by the agency which calls
   for complete repayment within five (5) years after the trainee enters
   repayment status, except as provided in § 3104.14.

   3104.7. The Director shall not require from the trainee repayments amounting
   to more than one-thousand and two hundred dollars ($1,200) annually unless
   higher payments are needed to complete the entire repayment within the five
   (5) year period as described in § 3104.6.

   3104.8. The Director shall capitalize any accrued unpaid interest at the time
   it establishes a trainee repayment schedule.

   3104.9. The trainee may defer repayment if he or she is:
   
   
   
   (a)	Engaged in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher
   education that has a Department, School or College of Nursing or a course of
   study leading to a nursing degree or certificate, located in the District of
   Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	Serving, not in excess of three (3) years, on active duty as a member of
   the armed services of the United States;
   
   
   
   (c)	Temporarily totally disabled, for a period not to exceed three (3) years,
   as established by sworn affidavit of a qualified physician;
   
   
   
   (d)	Unable to secure employment for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months
   by reason of the care required by a spouse, child or parent who is disabled;
   
   
   
   (e)	Seeking and unable to find full-time employment for a single period not to
   exceed twelve (12) months; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Seeking but unable to find full-time employment as a professional nurse or
   Practical Nurse at the D.C. General Hospital, Department of Human Services,
   the D.C. Office on Aging, or other designated agency.

   3104.10. To qualify for any of the exceptions, as described in § 3104.9, the
   trainee shall notify the Director of his or her claim to the exception.

   3104.11. Upon receipt of the trainee’s claim to an exception, the Director
   shall provide the trainee with a “Request for Deferment” form on which the
   trainee shall document his or her claim.

   3104.12. The Director shall not grant a deferment until the Director receives
   a properly completed and certified “Request for Deferment” form from the
   trainee.

   3104.13. During the time that the trainee qualifies for any of the exceptions
   described in § 3104.9, the trainee shall not be required to make the
   financial repayments described in § 3104.6, and interest shall not accrue.

   3104.14. The Director shall extend the five (5) year financial repayment
   period described in § 3104.6 by a period equal to the length of time that a
   trainee meets any of the conditions set forth in § 3104.9, or if a
   trainee’s inability to complete the financial repayment within the five (5)
   year period is due to his or her financial condition and this fact has been
   established to the Director’s satisfaction.

   3104.15. The Director shall cancel a trainee’s repayment obligation if it
   determines that:
   
   
   
   (a)	On the basis of a sworn affidavit of a qualified physician, the trainee is
   unable to practice on a full-time basis because of an impairment that is
   expected to continue indefinitely or result in death; or
   
   
   
   (b)	On the basis of a death certificate or other evidence of death that is
   conclusive under District law, the trainee has died.

   3104.16. The trainee shall inform the Director in writing whenever a
   significant change in his or her status occurs and provide the proper
   documentation to support it.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 8290, 8291 (December 21, 1990).
