                                  DC REGULATIONS

WATER SPORTS (§ 19-1039)

1039.1. When water contact sports are allowed under District of Columbia laws
   and regulations, no person shall operate a vessel on any District of Columbia
   waters for towing a person or persons on water skis, aquaplanes, surfboards,
   or similar devices, nor shall any person engage in water skiing, aquaplaning,
   surfboarding, or other similar activities, unless there is in that vessel a
   person, in addition to the operator, of not less than twelve (12) years of age
   who is in a position to observe the progress of the person or persons being
   towed.

   1039.2. No person shall operate a vessel on any District of Columbia waters
   for towing a person or persons on water skis, aquaplanes, surfboards, or
   similar devices, nor shall any person engage in water skiing, aquaplaning,
   surfboarding, or other similar activities, at any time during the night.

   1039.3. The provisions of §§ 1039.1 and 1039.2 shall not apply to a
   performer engaged in a professional exhibition authorized under a permit
   issued by the Mayor pursuant to § 1040.

   1039.4. No person shall swim or dive from any vessel that is turning into or
   from any anchorage or docking, or getting underway from any anchorage.

   1039.5. No person shall swim or dive in the marked channels of the harbor, or
   from any bridge, wharves, or piers in or adjacent to those channels.

   1039.6. No person shall swim or dive within one hundred (100) yards of any
   vessel that is loading or discharging passengers or freight.

   1039.7. Except as permitted by the Harbor Master under safe conditions, no
   person shall engage in any recreational activities that include, or may result
   in, direct physical contact with ice on District of Columbia waters. These
   activities shall include, but not be limited to, walking on the ice, ice
   skating, ice sledding, ice boating, ice fishing, and the use of a vehicle or
   other device on the ice.

   1039.8. Activities prohibited under § 1039.7 shall not include the use of
   vessels, diving for non-recreational purposes as governed by Title 24 of the
   District of Columbia Municipal Regulations, or fishing from the shore or any
   structurally sound piers, wharves, bulkheads, or other works located in
   District of Columbia waters.

   1039.9. No person shall throw, push, or drop any vehicle, animal, device,
   debris, waste, or matter onto the ice on District of Columbia waters; nor
   shall any person permit or cause any matter to come into contact with the ice
   on District of Columbia waters.

   1039.10. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as amending,
   superseding, or in any way changing the prohibition against water contact,
   recreational activity, or animal contact with the Potomac River, the Anacostia
   River, the Washington Ship Channel, Rock Creek, or Oxon Run as specified in 21
   DCMR § 508.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 29 § 13 of the Police Regulations of the District of
   Columbia (January 1983).
