                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROCESSING A CERTIFICATE OF TITLE (§ 19-1011)

1011.1. A lien shall not be entered upon a certificate of title unless:
   
   
   
   (a)	The vessel has been previously titled or registered in the District or
   some other jurisdiction and the lien is shown upon such previous certificate,
   title, registry, or proof of ownership;
   
   
   
   (b)	An instrument is presented in writing for recording pursuant to this
   chapter; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The lien is shown on the application for a certificate of title and was
   created prior to the date of enactment of the Act, or was created while the
   vessel was titled or registered in some other jurisdiction.

   1011.2. Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of title and
   accompanying documents, if any, or upon receipt of an application for a
   duplicate certificate, the Harbor Master shall compare the statements as to
   liens in the application with his or her records and the documents and
   instruments accompanying the application.

   1011.3. If the statements are incorrect or incomplete or if any of the liens
   shown on the application are not entitled to be entered on the certificate in
   the same order as they appear on the application, the Harbor Master shall
   return all of the papers to the applicant and advise the applicant of the
   reasons for their return.

   1011.4. If the statements as to liens are found to be accurate and complete
   and all liens shown on the application are found to be entitled to entry upon
   the certificate of title in the same order as they appear on the application,
   the Harbor Master shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Stamp on the application the words “Statements as to liens in accordance
   with records,” facsimile of his or her signature, and the date;
   
   
   
   (b)	Accept all instruments accompanying the application for recording and
   assign a record number to each instrument;
   
   
   
   (c)	Stamp the record number of the lien on the application for certificate of
   title; (d)	 Stamp the reverse side of that portion of the application for a
   certificate of registration known as “Collector’s Coupon” with the words
   “lien recorded”;
   
   
   
   (e)	Enter the lien information on the face of certificate of title in the
   space so provided and on the lien card; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Collect from the applicant or his or her representative all fees and
   charges in connection with the issuance of the certificate of title.

   1011.5. If the application for certificate of title shows no liens, and if
   this is found to be accurate, the Harbor Master shall stamp on the certificate
   of title and on the Collector’s Coupon the words “No Liens Shown By
   Records,” and the date.

   1011.6. The Harbor Master shall deliver the certificate of title to the record
   holder of the first lien shown on the certificate of title or to his or her
   representative or if there are no liens, to the owner or his or her
   representative.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: The Authority for this section is D.C. Law 5-58, the “District
   of Columbia Boat Titling Act of 1983”.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Section 2(c) of D.C. Law 5-58, the “District of Columbia Boat
   Titling Act of 1983”, 31 DCR 1459 (March 30, 1984) incorporating by
   reference the text of D.C. Act 5-86, 30 DCR 6293, 6303-05 (December 9, 1983).
