                                  DC REGULATIONS

ENTERING DESIGNATED OR RESTRICTED AREAS (§ 19-1029)

1029.1. Except with the permission of the Harbor Master, no owner, operator,
   or person otherwise in charge or control of any vessel shall allow that vessel
   to enter into or remain in any area in District of Columbia waters designated
   by the Mayor or other proper authority as a restricted area for use for a
   regatta, race, marine parade, marine tournament, marine exhibition, or similar
   organized aquatic event, or designated by the Harbor Master or other proper
   authority as a restricted area in the vicinity of an emergency.

   1029.2. The Harbor Master shall remove, or cause to be removed, and may
   impound any vessel entering into or remaining in any restricted area without
   his or her permission.

   1029.3. Any owner, operator, or person otherwise in charge or control of a
   vessel who enters into a restricted area, or fails or refuses to remove the
   vessel from a restricted area, shall be in violation of this section.

   1029.4. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
   the passage through restricted areas of vessels operated by the governments of
   the United States or District of Columbia.

   1029.5. This section and other applicable provisions of this chapter shall be
   controlling as to any aquatic event held in District of Columbia waters,
   except to the extent that they are inconsistent or in conflict with any laws
   or regulations administered by the Coast Guard relating to a particular
   aquatic event held under the supervision of the Coast Guard.

   1029.6. Whether using self-contained or surface-supplied air or engaged in
   mixed gas diving within the meaning of 29 CFR § 1910.402, a person diving in
   District of Columbia waters shall display, in the manner provided by the Mayor
   by regulation, a diving flag of a type approved by the Mayor. The flag shall
   be red in color with a white diagonal stripe.

   1029.7. No vessel, except for the vessel or vessels attending the diver, shall
   operate within one hundred fifty feet (150 ft.) of any flag displayed in
   accordance with § 1029.6.

   1029.8. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as amending,
   superseding, or in any way changing the prohibition against diving contained
   in 21 DCMR § 530.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 29 § 9 of the Police Regulations of the District of Columbia
   (January 1983).
