                                  DC REGULATIONS

OPERATION OF VESSELS (§ 19-1026)

1026.1. All vessels shall be operated in compliance with the Navigation Rules
   (as defined in § 1099 of this chapter).

   1026.2. No person shall operate or use any vessel in a negligent manner so as
   to endanger the life, limb, or property of any person.

   1026.3. No person shall operate or use any vessel, or use any water skis,
   aquaplane, surfboard, or similar device, while under the influence of alcohol,
   marijuana, or any narcotic drug, barbiturate, or hallucinogen.

   1026.4. No person, or agent or employee of a person, who owns, leases, or
   controls any wharf, pier, bulkhead; or structure on a wharf, pier, or
   bulkhead; or waters adjacent to a wharf, pier, or bulkhead; or any basin,
   slip, dock, waterfront, land under water; or any structure on any of these
   places shall rent, lease, or hire any vessel to a person who is under eighteen
   (18) years of age, unless the person under eighteen (18) years of age has
   successfully completed a boating safety course approved by the Harbor Master,
   or unless the person will be under the constant supervision of a person at
   least eighteen (18) years of age who has successfully completed a boating
   safety course.

   1026.5. No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall operate or navigate
   any vessel sixteen feet (16 ft.) or more in length of any kind in District of
   Columbia waters, unless the person has successfully completed a boating safety
   course approved by the Harbor Master, or unless the person under eighteen (18)
   years of age is under the supervision of a person who has reached eighteen
   (18) years of age and who has successfully completed a boating safety course.

   1026.6. Any person who is operating or navigating any vessel shall have in his
   or her possession satisfactory evidence of having completed an approved
   boating safety course, or the person shall make evidence of having completed a
   boating safety course available to the Harbor Master at the vessel’s
   launching or berthing point on the shore adjacent to District of Columbia
   waters.

   1026.7. When the operator of a vessel sixteen feet (16 ft.) or more in length
   is under eighteen (18) years of age, the operator and all other persons aboard
   the vessel who are under eighteen (18) years of age shall wear a Coast Guard
   approved personal floatation device of the proper size.
   
   
   
   (1A)	No person may operate a recreational vessel underway with any child under
   13 years old aboard unless each such child is below decks, in an enclosed
   cabin, or wearing a Coast Guard approved personal flotation device of the
   proper size.

   1026.8. No person shall use, operate, or permit to be operated any vessel on
   District of Columbia waters, unless the vessel is of sound construction and in
   a good, seaworthy condition.
   
   
   
   (1A)	No person may operate a recreational vessel underway with any child under
   13 years old aboard unless each such child is below decks, in an enclosed
   cabin, or wearing a Coast Guard approved personal flotation device of the
   proper size.

   1026.9. No person shall loan, rent, lease, chart, hire, or offer for those
   purposes any vessel owned by him or her, or subject to his or her control,
   unless the vessel is of sound construction and in a good, seaworthy condition.

   1026.10. All persons aboard any vessel in the area from the southernmost point
   of the cove commonly known as Fletcher’s Cove in the Georgetown Channel of
   the Potomac River upstream to the District of Columbia boundary line at Little
   Falls shall wear a Coast Guard-approved personal floatation device at all
   times.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 29 § 12 of the Police Regulations of the District of
   Columbia (January 1983); and as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51
   DCR 8781 by D. C. ACT 15-490 (September 10, 2004).
