                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 19-1099)

1099.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Act &#8211; the District of Columbia Boat Titling Act of 1983.
   
   
   
   Associated equipment &#8211; any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any system, part, or component of a boat as originally manufactured, or
   any similar part or component manufactured or sold, for replacement, repair,
   or improvement of the system, part, or component;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any accessory or equipment for, or appurtenance to, a boat; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Any marine safety article, accessory, or equipment intended for use by a
   person on board a boat; but excluding radio equipment.
   
   
   
   Boat &#8211; any vessel that is:
   
   
   
   (a)	Manufactured or used primarily for noncommercial use;
   
   
   
   (b)	Leased, rented, or chartered to another person for the person’s
   noncommercial use; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Engaged in the carrying of six (6) or fewer passengers.
   
   
   
   Boat livery &#8211; any business that rents, leases, or charters any vessel,
   or that offers any vessel for rent, lease, or charter.
   
   
   
   Channels &#8211; marked or unmarked waterways commonly used for navigation.
   
   
   
   Charts &#8211; official scale maps that designate the anchorage areas,
   channels, and other areas and matters specified in this chapter.
   
   
   
   Chief of Police &#8211; the Chief of the Metropolitan Police Department of the
   District of
   
   Columbia, or his or her authorized representatives.
   
   
   
   Coast Guard &#8211; the United States Coast Guard, under the U.S. Department
   of Transportation or the federal department under which the Coast Guard is
   operating.
   
   
   
   Dealer &#8211; any person who engages in whole or in part in the business of
   buying, selling, or exchanging new and unused vessels, or used vessels, or
   both, either outright or on conditional sale, bailment, lease, chattel
   mortgage, or otherwise, and who has an established place of business for sale,
   trade, and display of vessels. A yacht broker is a dealer.
   
   
   
   District &#8211; the District of Columbia
   
   
   
   District Waters &#8211; the area of all navigable waters within the District
   of Columbia and the shores and structures adjacent to those waters.
   
   
   
   Emergency law enforcement or fire vessel &#8211; any vessel that is operated
   under the authority of a government law enforcement agency or fire department
   with jurisdiction in District of Columbia waters, and which has its blue
   emergency lights activated or sirens sounding.
   
   
   
   Fire Chief &#8211; the Fire Chief of the District of Columbia, or his or her
   authorized representatives.
   
   
   
   Harbor lines &#8211; those limiting lines within the District of Columbia
   beyond which no piers, wharves, bulkheads, or other works shall extend or
   deposits be made as established by the Chief of Engineers, Corps of Engineers,
   U.S. Army, and the Mayor; approved by the Secretary of the Department of the
   Army; and on file with the Mayor.
   
   
   
   Harbor Master &#8211; the official of the Metropolitan Police Department who
   commands the Harbor Unit or its successor, and his or her authorized
   representatives, including any police officer acting for the Harbor Master.
   
   
   
   Hull identification number &#8211; the number assigned to the hull of a vessel
   by its manufacturer, home builder, or importer under 33 CFR § 181.
   
   
   
   Identification number &#8211; the number assigned to a vessel by the Coast
   Guard, by a state or United States territory with a numbering system approved
   by the Secretary of the federal department in which the Coast Guard is
   operating, or by the District of Columbia under this chapter.
   
   
   
   Mayor &#8211; the Mayor of the District, of Columbia or his or her authorized
   representatives.
   
   
   
   Lien Holder &#8211; any person holding a security interest.
   
   
   
   Manufacturer &#8211; any person engaged in the business of manufacturing or
   importing new and unused vessels for the purpose of sale or trade.
   
   
   
   Navigation rules &#8211; those federal laws and rules and regulations
   promulgated by the Secretary of the federal department in which the Coast
   Guard is operating relating to the navigation of vessels in navigable waters
   of the United States, including the “Pilot Rules for Inland Waters” 33 CFR
   § 80; and the “Navigation Rules for Inland Waters, Harbors, and Rivers
   Generally”, 33 USC 151 et seq.
   
   
   
   Night &#8211; any time from sunset to sunrise and any other time when, due to
   insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vessels, or
   other objects in the water or on the shore are not clearly discernible beyond
   a distance of five hundred feet (500 ft.). The term day means any time other
   than night.
   
   
   
   Operator &#8211; any person who operates, or has charge, command, or control
   of the navigation or use of a vessel.
   
   
   
   Owner &#8211; any person who claims lawful possession of a vessel by virtue of
   legal title, or who has an equitable interest in the vessel that entitles him
   or her to possession of the vessel.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; any individual, partnership, corporation, company, association,
   joint-stock association, firm, or governmental entity, and any trustee,
   receiver, assignee, or similar representative of the trustee.
   
   
   
   Passenger &#8211; any person carried on board a vessel other than the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The owner or the owner’s representative;
   
   
   
   (b)	The operator;
   
   
   
   (c)	Bona fide members of the crew engaged in the business of the vessel who
   have contributed no consideration for their carriage and who are paid for
   their services; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Any guest on board a vessel that is being used exclusively for pleasure
   purposes who has not directly or indirectly contributed any consideration for
   his or her carriage.
   
   
   
   Racing shell, rowing scull, racing kayak, or racing canoe &#8211; any manually
   propelled boat that is recognized by a national or international racing
   association for use in competitive racing; in which all occupants row, scull,
   or paddle with the exception of a coxswain, if one is provided; and which is
   not designed to carry and does not carry any equipment not solely used for
   competitive racing.
   
   
   
   Undocumented vessel &#8211; any vessel that does not have and is not required
   to have a valid marine document as a vessel of the United States.
   
   
   
   Use &#8211; to operate, navigate, or employ.
   
   
   
   Vessel &#8211; every description of watercraft, other than amphibian aircraft
   or seaplanes on the water, used or capable of being used as a means of
   transportation on the water.
   
   
   
   Vessel Principally Used &#8211; a vessel used mostly on District of Columbia
   Waters during a calendar year.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 29 § 2 of the Police Regulations of the District of Columbia
   (January 1983); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 31 DCR 1459 (March
   30, 1984); incorporating by reference 30 DCR 6293, 6293-94 (December 9, 1983).
