                                  DC REGULATIONS

ENFORCEMENT (§ 19-1022)

1022.1. The Harbor Master is authorized to stop and board any vessel subject
   to the provisions of this chapter for the purpose of inspecting or determining
   compliance with this chapter.

   1022.2. The Harbor Master is empowered to make a summary arrest, or to issue a
   summons for appearance in court, for all violations of this chapter.

   1022.3. Law enforcement vessels shall be marked so as to identify them as law
   enforcement vessels.

   1022.4. While underway and upon being hailed by the Harbor Master or Fire
   Chief, each vessel subject to the provisions of this chapter shall stop
   immediately and lay to, or shall maneuver in such a way as to, permit the
   Harbor Master or Fire Chief to come aboard. All vessels shall yield and lay to
   any emergency law enforcement or fire vessel.

   1022.5. Upon observing any vessel being used in violation of this chapter in
   any of the following ways, the Harbor Master may order the operator to take
   any immediate reasonable steps that may be necessary for the safety of those
   aboard the vessel, including ordering the operator to proceed at a location
   designated by the Harbor Master, and to remain there until the situation
   creating the hazard is remedied or ended;
   
   
   
   (a)	Without sufficient lifesaving equipment;
   
   
   
   (b)	With improper navigation light display;
   
   
   
   (c)	In an overloaded condition;
   
   
   
   (d)	With an accumulation of fuel in the bilge compartment;
   
   
   
   (e)	With leaky fuel lines;
   
   
   
   (f)	Without sufficient firefighting equipment;
   
   
   
   (g)	Without a Coast Guard-approved backflame arrester;
   
   
   
   (h)	With inadequate ventilation; or
   
   
   
   (i)	With any other unsafe condition, and when, in his judgment, such use
   creates a hazardous condition, may order the operator to take such immediate
   reasonable steps as may be necessary for the safety of those aboard the
   vessel, including ordering the operator to proceed to a location designated by
   him and to remain there until the situation creating the hazard is remedied or
   ended.

   1022.6. Upon observing any vessel being used in violation of this chapter in
   any of the following ways, the Fire Chief may order the operator to take any
   immediate reasonable steps that may be necessary for the safety of those
   aboard the vessel, including ordering the operator to proceed to a location
   designated by the Fire Chief, and to remain there until the situation creating
   the hazard is remedied or ended:
   
   
   
   (a)	With an accumulation of fuel in the bilge compartment;
   
   
   
   (b)	With leaky fuel lines;
   
   
   
   (c)	Without sufficient firefighting equipment;
   
   
   
   (d)	Without a Coast Guard-approved backflame arrester;
   
   
   
   (e)	With inadequate ventilation; or
   
   
   
   (f)	With any other unsafe condition that, in the Fire Chief’s judgment,
   created a hazardous condition.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 29 § 24 of the Police Regulations of the District of
   Columbia (January 1983).
