                                  DC REGULATIONS

COLLISIONS, ACCIDENTS, AND CASUALTIES (ยง 19-1031)

1031.1. To the extent that he or she can do so without serious danger to his
   or her own vessel or persons aboard, the operator of a vessel involved in a
   collision, accident, or other casualty shall render all practical and
   necessary assistance to persons affected by the collision, accident, or
   casualty to save them from or minimize any danger caused by the collision,
   accident, or casualty.

   1031.2. An operator of a vessel involved in a collision, accident, or other
   casualty shall give, in writing, his or her name, address, and the
   identification of his or her vessel to any person injured and to the owner of
   any property damaged.

   1031.3. The duties imposed by this section shall be in addition to any duties
   otherwise imposed by other law or regulation.

   1031.4. The operator (or the owner if the operator is incapable or
   unavailable) of a vessel shall file a written accident or casualty report with
   the Metropolitan Police Department on the form prescribed by the Chief of
   Police when, as a result of an incident that involves the vessel or its
   equipment, one of the following occurs:
   
   
   
   (a)	A person dies;
   
   
   
   (b)	A person is injured and requires medical treatment beyond first aid;
   
   
   
   (c)	Damage to the vessel and other property totals more than two hundred
   dollars ($200), or there is a complete loss of a vessel; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A person disappears from the vessel under circumstances that indicate
   death or injury.

   1031.5. Accident or casualty reports required by ยง 1031.4 shall be filed
   within ten (10) days of the incident or death, except in the following
   instances:
   
   
   
   (a)	If a person dies within twenty-four (24) hours of the incident, the report
   shall be filed within forty-eight (48) hours of the incident; or
   
   
   
   (b)	If a person is injured and requires medical treatment beyond first aid, or
   disappears from a vessel, the report shall be filed within forty-eight (48)
   hours of the incident.

   1031.6. Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง 1031.5, if a person dies or
   disappears from a vessel as a result of an incident that involves the vessel
   or its equipment, the operator (or the owner if the operator is incapable) of
   the vessel shall immediately notify the Harbor Master.

   1031.7. Accident or casualty reports filed under this section shall not be
   open to public inspection or release; provided, that nothing contained in this
   subsection shall be construed as prohibiting the inspection of a report by any
   person named in the report or his or her designated representative, or the
   furnishing of copies of the report to those persons upon the payment of the
   costs of furnishing the copies.

   1031.8. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
   the disclosure of accident or casualty reports to officials of the governments
   of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any state or subdivision of
   a state, for official purposes, or the use of those reports by those officials
   in any administrative or judicial proceeding in which such governments are
   interested.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 29 ยง 14 of the Police Regulations of the District of
   Columbia (January 1983).
