                                  DC REGULATIONS

WORKPLACE PROTECTIONS (ยง 29-5811)

5811.1. The following workplace protections shall apply to TANF recipients and
   applicants participating in work activities:
   
   
   
   (a)	The right to work in a safe and healthy work environment, which shall
   include the requirement to provide protective gear for those working with
   unsafe substances. The physical limitations of TANF recipients and applicants
   shall be taken into account;
   
   
   
   (b)	The right to apply for workers&#8217; compensation for injuries that occur
   while participating in work activities, if the TANF recipient is considered an
   employee for purposes of the Fair Labor Standards Act, which shall include
   medical expenses, payments for total or partial disability and wage
   replacement where applicable; and shall be available regardless of whether the
   TANF recipient is covered under a workers&#8217; compensation insurance
   policy. All work sites, including government work sites, shall be required to
   provide proof of workers&#8217; compensation insurance coverage for all TANF
   recipients at their work site;
   
   
   
   (c)	The right to be free from discrimination to the extent required by federal
   and District law; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The right to the minimum wage of the District, or state, county or
   municipality in which they participate in work activities under the terms as
   specified by the Fair Labor Standards Act and, if applicable, the District of
   Columbia&#8217;s Minimum Wage Act Revision Act, effective March 25, 1993 (D.C.
   Law 9-248; D.C. Official Code 32-1002):
   
   
   
   (1)	A participant shall have his or her hours reduced or a supplemental
   payment issued for any month in which the hours of participation divided by
   the amount of all payments received from the government and work site, if any,
   equal an amount less than the relevant minimum wage; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent a participant from
   receiving more than the minimum wage.

   5811.2. All TANF recipients or applicants who participate in work shall be
   considered employees on a case-by-case basis by evaluating the facts of their
   situation in light of regulations and court cases pursuant to relevant
   employment discrimination or workplace laws such as the Fair Labor Standards
   Act and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, except those who
   participate in job search and job readiness shall not be considered employees.

   5811.3. All non-governmental entities providing work-related services and all
   work sites shall pay into the unemployment compensation system for TANF
   recipients who qualify as employees pursuant to An Act To provide for
   unemployment compensation in the District of Columbia, authorize
   appropriations, and for other purposes, approved August 28, 1935, 49 Stat.
   946, D.C. Official Code Section 51-101.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 10251 (November 9, 2001).
