                                  DC REGULATIONS

GOOD CAUSE CIRCUMSTANCES[COLON] WORK-RELATED ACTIVITIES (ยง 29-5810)

5810.1. At or before the preliminary assessment, all TANF applicants shall
   receive written and oral notice of good cause circumstances, as set forth in
   subsection 5810.3.

   5810.2. The applicant or recipient shall acknowledge receipt of the notice in
   this subsection. The recipient shall be provided a copy of the notice. IMA
   shall provide this notice at least once per year.

   5810.3. Good cause for failure to attend initial orientation, counseling, or
   assessment activities, or for failure to participate in or complete other job
   readiness or job search activities, or for failure to participate in work
   activities as directed by the Director or his or her designee, notice of which
   shall be given to each TANF applicant, shall include one (1) or more of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A verified, if necessary, physical or mental illness or medical condition
   of the applicant or recipient, or of a member of the applicant&#8217;s or
   recipient&#8217;s household or immediate family when no other appropriate
   member of the household or family is available to provide the needed care,
   which prevents the applicant or recipient from participating in the required
   activities;
   
   
   
   (b)	The need for child care in order for the applicant or recipient to
   participate in or to continue participation in the activities or to accept
   employment, where appropriate and affordable child care (formal or informal)
   is not available within a reasonable distance from the applicant&#8217;s or
   recipient&#8217;s home or service site. For purposes of this paragraph, there
   is a need for child care if the applicant or recipient is caring for a child
   under six (6) years of age or for a child who has special health care needs
   (verified by competent medical evidence, as determined by the Director or his
   or her designee) that prevents regular attendance at school;
   
   
   
   (c)	The applicant or recipient is the parent or other caretaker who personally
   provides care for a child under six (6) years of age, and participates in the
   activities or employment, an average of at least twenty (20) hours per week;
   
   
   
   (d)	Resides in a location which is so remote from a program or activity that
   transportation is not available. The individual shall be considered remote if
   a round trip of more than two (2) hours by reasonably available public or
   private transportation, exclusive of time necessary to transport children to
   and from a child care facility or school, would be required for a normal work
   or training day. However, if normal commuting time in the area is more than
   two (2) hours, then the round trip commuting time shall not be considered good
   cause;
   
   
   
   (e)	Discrimination by a non-governmental entity, employer or other program or
   activity in violation of federal or District law;
   
   
   
   (f)	Working or participating without being paid the work participation
   allowance;
   
   
   
   (g)	Violations of any workplace protections listed in Section 5811; and
   
   
   
   (h)	An extraordinary and unforeseen circumstance beyond the control of the
   applicant or recipient that prevents the applicant or recipient from
   participating in the required activities, including but not limited to
   domestic violence, house fires, or car wrecks.

   5810.4. Denials of a recipient&#8217;s request for good cause shall be in
   writing and appealable through the fair hearing process.

   5810.5. The Director or his or her designee may require reasonable
   verification of good cause.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 10251 (November 9, 2001).
