                                  DC REGULATIONS

SCREENING AND REFERRALS FOR THE POWER PROGRAM (ยง 29-5829)

5829.1. The Director or his or her designee shall screen TANF applicants and
   recipients at the point of application, recertification, or when incapacity or
   disability is raised by the applicant or recipient for the Program on Work,
   Employment and Responsibility (POWER) to determine if the head of the
   assistance unit has a physical or mental incapacity.

   5829.2. The Director or his or her designee may use a screening instrument
   that is filled out by each TANF applicant or recipient, which shall be
   designed to elicit basic information needed to determine potential POWER
   eligibility for the head of the assistance unit. The screening instrument
   shall be made available to the heads of the assistance units who self identify
   as having a physical or mental incapacity.

   5829.3. When the screening instrument indicates that the head of the
   assistance unit has a physical or mental incapacity, he or she shall be
   provided a medical examination form, to be completed by a physician to
   determine the extent of the physical or mental incapacity, if any.

   5829.4. The head of the assistance unit who receives the medical examination
   form shall be responsible for ensuring that:
   
   
   
   (a)	He or she is examined by a physician, mental health professional, or other
   appropriate professional;
   
   
   
   (b)	The medical examination form is completed by the physician, or
   professional; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The medical examination form is returned to IMA as soon as possible, but
   no later than ninety (90) days after receipt of the medical examination form.

   5829.5. Prior to the determination of POWER eligibility, the Director or his
   or her designee may determine Medicaid eligibility first, so that the head of
   the assistance unit may access his or her primary care physician for the
   required medical examination.

   5829.6. The head of the assistance unit shall not be required to participate
   in TANF work programs pending a finding of POWER eligibility by the Medical
   Review Team (MRT).

   5829.7. When the screening instrument indicates that the head of the
   assistance unit has a physical or mental incapacity, the Director or his or
   her designee shall provide him or her a social information form, which shall
   be designed to elicit basic information regarding his or her prior work
   experience, education, and other factors bearing on his or her ability to
   work.

   5829.8. Pending resolution of POWER eligibility determination, the Director or
   his or her designee shall process the TANF application.

   5829.9. Upon receipt of the completed medical examination form and the social
   information form from the head of the assistance unit, IMA shall send the
   application package to the MRT for:
   
   
   
   (a)	Final disposition of the POWER application, assuming other eligibility
   criteria have been met; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Placement into self-sufficiency activities, if necessary.

   5829.10. If the MRT determines that the head of the assistance unit is
   eligible for POWER, the eligibility start date shall be the first day of the
   month that IMA received the completed medical examination form from the head
   of the assistance unit.

   5829.11. The Director or his or her designee shall ensure that a reasonable
   plan for self-sufficiency is developed for the POWER-eligible head of the
   assistance unit.

   5829.12. The plan for self-sufficiency shall take into consideration the
   extent to which the head of the assistance unit has an incapacity and the
   social information provided by the head of the assistance unit. The amount of
   activities shall mirror, where possible, the work activities required in TANF.

   5829.13. POWER eligibility and the plan for self-sufficiency shall be reviewed
   as set forth in the plan for self-sufficiency but not less than once every
   twelve (12) months.

   5829.14. Each head of an assistance unit who receives a plan for
   self-sufficiency shall comply with the instructions contained in the plan.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 10251 (November 9, 2001).
