                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONSIDERATION OF CASES BY THE BOARD[COLON] D.C. POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS
HIRED AFTER FEBRUARY 15, 1980 (§ 7-2515)

2515.1. This section shall apply to-the consideration of cases by the Board
   for D.C. Police Officers and Firefighters.

   2515.2. The Board shall give due regard to the following in considering and
   evaluating percentages of disability:
   
   
   
   (a)	Due regard shall be given to the nature of the injury or disease, as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	The physical or mental impairment, limitations, and restrictions shall be
   described and set forth in writing or by expert testimony, or both;
   
   
   
   (2)	The medical prognosis regarding the injury or disease shall be elicited
   and weighed;
   
   
   
   (3)	The job limitations and restrictions shall be a factor; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Other aspects of the injury or disease that may affect employment, both
   within and outside the department, that is, limited duty, kind of regular duty
   assigned (contact or non-contact), permanent, partial, and total disability;
   
   
   
   (b)	Due regard shall be given to the percentage of impairment, as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	A percentage-of-impairment figure assigned and reported by the Board of
   Police and Fire Surgeons shall be a factor;
   
   
   
   (2)	The percentage of disability to be assigned by the Board shall not
   automatically be equivalent to the percentage of impairment as determined by
   the Board of Police and Fire Surgeons. The percentage, or severity, of the
   physical or mental impairment shall be only one (1) factor for determining the
   wage-earning capacity of a disabled Police Officer or Firefighter. An earning
   capacity while in disability retirement shall be determined and compared to
   the pay for the position(s) held by the Police Officer or Firefighter at the
   time of retirement; and
   
   
   
   (3)	The percentage-of-impairment figure assigned by the Board of Police and
   Fire Surgeons, along with expert testimony and opinion of witnesses, shall
   assist the Board in determining specific job limitations, physical or mental
   restrictions, and wage-earning capacity.
   
   
   
   (c)	Due regard shall be given to the position held immediately prior to
   retirement, as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	The position held shall be considered in applying the physical or mental
   disability rating; and
   
   
   
   (2)	The physical or mental and job limitations and restrictions as a result of
   the impairment and wage-earning capacity shall be weighed for or against
   disability.
   
   
   
   (d)	Due regard shall be given to the age and years of service, as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	The extent to which a permanent impairment may affect a Police Officer or
   Firefighter can vary depending on age. Therefore, the age, in terms of
   impairment and employability in retirement, shall be considered on that basis;
   and
   
   
   
   (2)	Years of service as to knowledge, skills, and experiences gained in
   employment shall be considered in terms of their transferability to the open
   labor market.
   
   
   
   (e)	Due regard shall be given to other factors, as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	Education, training, and special skills shall help the Board in
   determining wage-earning capacity;
   
   
   
   
   
   (2)	The qualifications for wage-earning capacity while in retirement shall be
   reviewed and examined. Whenever applicable for a given position, the minimum
   qualification requirements in terms of education, training, and job
   experiences shall be examined and the qualifications of the disabled retiree
   shall be measured against them;
   
   
   
   (3)	The availability of suitable employment shall be coordinated with the D.C.
   Department of Employment Services and the employment services of Northern
   Virginia and Montgomery and Prince Georges Counties;
   
   
   
   (4)	Jobs that the disabled retiree is qualified for shall exist in the open
   labor market in the commuting area&#8211;the Washington Metropolitan
   area&#8211;in order for employment to be deemed available;
   
   
   
   (5)	The scarcity of vacancies or the inability of the disabled retiree to
   secure employment, for whatever reason, shall not require an inference that
   the disabled retiree does not have the capacity to earn the wages for a
   determined position;
   
   
   
   (6)	The D.C. Department of Employment Services shall be the source of
   availability of jobs and basic salaries for those jobs;
   
   
   
   (7)	The aptitude for acquiring new skills, the ability to adjust to a handicap
   and other personality conditions, and the impact the presence of the injury or
   disease could have on the employability of a disabled retiree shall be
   considered; and
   
   
   
   (8)	The Board shall not be an employment agency. It shall take no
   responsibility for getting or securing employment for anyone.

   2515.3. The percentage of disability formula shall be governed by the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The criteria for determining percentages of disability or loss of
   wage-earning capacity shall be considered in the context of the application of
   §2515.1 for each individual case. No one criteria shall be considered by the
   Board as controlling or standard. The combined result of the application of
   §2515.1 shall produce the final determination by the Board;
   
   
   
   (b)	In order to compute the percentage of disability and the amount of the
   retirement annuity by use of the formula in §2515.2(e), the following two (2)
   basic salary figures shall be determined:
   
   
   
   (1)	The basic salary for the position last occupied by the Police Officer or
   Firefighter; and
   
   
   
   (2)	The basic salary for the position he or she has the capacity to occupy
   while in disability retirement.
   
   
   
   (c)	The two (2) basic salaries shall be comparable in that they shall
   represent the salaries of each position at the same point in time&#8211;at the
   time of the Board&#8217;s final decision;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Board, after weighing the physical and mental condition(s) and
   economic and other factors, shall render a final decision as to the extent to
   which a disability affects a Police Officer&#8217;s or Firefighter&#8217;s
   ability to earn wages while in disability retirement, pursuant to §§4-615(b)
   and 4-616(e), D.C. Code (1981);
   
   
   
   (e)	The formula &#8220;The quantity &#8216;A minus B&#8217; divided by A
   equals C, and C multiplied by D equals E,&#8221; shall be used, given the
   following:
   
   
   
   (1)	&#8220;A&#8221; shall equal the current salary for the position held by
   the Police Officer or Firefighter;
   
   
   
   (2)	&#8220;B&#8221; shall equal the current salary for the position the
   disabled Police Officer of Firefighter has the capacity to occupy;
   
   
   
   (3)	&#8220;C&#8221; shall equal the percentage of disability;
   
   
   
   (4)	&#8220;D&#8221; shall equal seventy percent (70%) of the Police
   Officer&#8217;s or Firefighter&#8217;s basic salary; and
   
   
   
   (5)	&#8220;E&#8221; shall equal the amount of the annuity; Provided, that the
   amount of the annuity shall not be less than forty percent (40%) of the basic
   salary at the time of retirement in a performance-of-duty case and not less
   than thirty percent (30%) in a not-in-performance-of-duty case.
   
   
   
   (f)	Determination shall be made on an individual case basis to allow for
   similar physical or mental impairment of different individuals, which may
   produce differing losses of wage-earning capacity or percentages of
   disability.

   2515.4. Once the percentage of disability has been determined by the
   Board&#8217;s final decision, the percentage shall not be changed unless it is
   subsequently shown, by medical evidence presented at annual reviews, that the
   degree of impairment has increased or decreased, or that the annuitant&#8217;s
   actual annual earnings fairly represent his or her earning capacity.
