                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICE OF PAPERS, METHODS, PROOF (ยง 7-2505)

2505.1. Any papers required to be served upon a party shall be served upon him
   or her or upon the representative designated by him or her, or by law, to
   receive service of papers. Service is deemed effected upon receipt of papers
   by a party when the party is not represented by counsel. When a party is
   represented by counsel, service shall be deemed effected upon receipt of
   papers by the party&#8217;s designated counsel of record, unless otherwise
   ordered by the Board.

   2505.2. Service of papers may be made in the following ways:
   
   
   
   (a)	By personal delivery;
   
   
   
   (b)	By mail;
   
   
   
   (c)	By telegraph;
   
   
   
   (d)	By mailgram; or
   
   
   
   (e)	As otherwise authorized by law.

   2505.3. Service upon a party is deemed complete, when the following occurs:
   
   
   
   (a)	By personal delivery, on handing the paper to the person or leaving it at
   his or her office with any person in charge, or if there is no one in charge,
   leaving it at his or her place of residence with some person of suitable age
   and discretion then residing therein;
   
   
   
   (b)	By telegraph, or mailgram when deposited with a telegram company, properly
   addressed and with charges prepaid;
   
   
   
   (c)	By mail, on deposit in the United States mail, properly stamped and
   addressed; or
   
   
   
   (d)	By conformity with an order of the Board made in any proceeding.

   2505.4. Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom
   served and the manner and date of service, shall be shown and may be made in
   any of the following ways:
   
   
   
   (a)	Written acknowledgement of the party served or his or her representative;
   
   
   
   (b)	The certificate of the representative if he or she has made the service;
   
   
   
   (c)	A return receipt if served by registered or certified mail; or
   
   
   
   (d)	The certificate of the person making the service.
