                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTARIZED INCOME STATEMENT (ยง 7-2520)

2520.1. Each retired annuitant under the age of fifty (50) shall file annually
   with the Board a notarized statement of employment and income on forms
   provided, or in format suggested by the Board, and shall execute a release, on
   a form provided by the Board for that purpose, authorizing the Board to obtain
   the annuitant&#8217;s federal income tax returns or information contained
   therein from the Internal Revenue Service.

   2520.2. Information received shall be kept confidential and shall only be used
   to determine the retiree&#8217;s continued eligibility for disability annuity
   payments and shall not be redisseminated unless the retiree&#8217;s prior
   written permission is received.

   2520.3. All information received pertaining to an annuitant&#8217;s employment
   and income shall be considered in determining earning capacity.

   2520.4. Any annuitant who is retired under ยง4-615 or ยง4-616, D.C. Code
   (1981), and who prior to his or her retirement was an officer or member of the
   D.C. Metropolitan Protective Service, or the Secret Service Division, shall
   upon request by the Board, submit to the Board a notarized statement
   containing such information as may be required with respect to the gross
   income received from wages or self-employment, or both, as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The annuitant shall submit the required information on the form provided,
   or in format suggested, as appropriate; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The annuitant shall have thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the
   request to return the completed notarized information to the Board.

   2520.5. After examining and evaluating information or statement submitted by
   any retired annuitant, the Board may require the annuitant to submit further
   notarized statement(s) containing additional information with respect to the
   income received from wages or self-employment, or both, as the Board deems
   appropriate.

   2520.6. In the event a retired annuitant fails to submit the statement
   required or willfully furnishes materially false information, or when the
   statements raise a question of the annuitant&#8217;s continued eligibility for
   disability annuity payments, the Board shall schedule a hearing on the matter.
