                                  DC REGULATIONS

ANNUAL MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF RETIRED ANNUITANT (ยง 7-2519)

2519.1. Each annuitant retired for disability shall appear before the Board of
   Surgeons, or before a medical specialist approved by the Board of Surgeons, at
   least once every year until he or she shall have reached the age of fifty (50)
   years, for a medical examination of the disability for which he or she was
   retired, to determine his or her current physical and/or mental condition,
   unless excused from the examination by order of the Board.

   2519.2. The Board shall receive all medical and psychiatric reports through
   and from the Board of Surgeons and, upon review of the reports and
   recommendations made by the Board of Surgeons, determine the current status of
   the annuitant&#8217;s disability and make a decision as to the disposition of
   the case.

   2519.3. The Board may, in its discretion and in order to assist it in making a
   fair and just determination, require any disabled annuitant to report to the
   Board of Surgeons or to an outside medical consultant for an examination of
   the disability for which he or she was retired. Expenses incurred by an
   annuitant reporting to an outside consultant at the direction of the Board
   shall not-be borne by the annuitant.

   2519.4. In making the necessary determination with regard to the continuation
   of retirement eligibility of an annuitant the Board shall consider the written
   opinion and recommendation submitted to it by the Board of Surgeons concerning
   the annuitant&#8217;s current physical and mental condition together with any
   other pertinent reports or records.

   2519.5. An annuitant may not be required to appear before the Board in person
   but may be so required at the Board&#8217;s discretion.

   2519.6. If the Board finds there is sufficient evidence that the annuitant has
   recovered from the disability for which he or she retired, then the annuitant
   may be required to appear before the Board for a hearing. The expenses
   incurred by the appearance shall be borne by the annuitant.
