                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATIONS FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE; ANNOUNCEMENT OF AVAILABILITY OF FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE (ยง 14-9403)

9403.1. A person may be eligible to make application for financial assistance
   if the person:
   
   
   
   (a)	Consists of one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, limited
   liability companies or other privately-controlled legal entities; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Can establish to the satisfaction of DCHA its reasonable capacity to meet
   the requirements applicable to receipt of financial assistance under this
   Chapter, applicable law and the applicable announcement; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Can establish to the satisfaction of DCHA that such person holds valid
   legal title to the property; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Is not on the U.S. General Services Administration List of Parties
   Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Can demonstrate to the satisfaction of DCHA an effective plan to minimize
   the interruption of occupancy of the property by, and the duration of
   relocation of, tenants holding Housing Choice Vouchers.

   9403.2. DCHA may periodically announce the availability of financial
   assistance and a summary of the requirements for application and approval for
   financial assistance.

   9403.3. In an announcement, DCHA will provide general information, in a form
   prescribed by DCHA, which may include, but is not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The deadline for submission of applications;
   
   
   
   (b)	The method and location for requesting an application;
   
   
   
   (c)	Application fees, if any, payable by applicants;
   
   
   
   (d)	A detailed description of the financial assistance available and the type
   of project and project costs eligible for financial assistance; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Criteria that will be used to evaluate applications and grant financial
   assistance.

   9403.4. DCHA&#8217;s announcement and summary of application requirements will
   be published in at least one (1) newspaper of general circulation in the
   District of Columbia, in at least one (1) newspaper serving minority
   communities in the District of Columbia, and in at least one (1) bi-lingual
   newspaper circulated in the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 10637 (November 2, 2007).
