                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVAL AND FUNDING OF APPLICATIONS; CONTINUING RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS (ยง
14-9404)

9404.1. Upon receipt of an application for financial assistance, DCHA or its
   designee will perform an initial review to determine completeness and its
   compliance with the applicable announcement and the eligibility requirements
   as specified in this Chapter.

   9404.2. DCHA or its designee shall reject applications which are initially
   determined to be incomplete or ineligible and may, in its sole discretion,
   grant additional time as it deems appropriate to enable applicants to correct
   deficiencies identified during the initial evaluation of the application.

   9404.3. Applications determined to be complete and meeting intake requirements
   shall be reviewed by DCHA or its designee in accordance with the criteria
   established pursuant to this Chapter, applicable law and the applicable
   announcement. Applications determined to be complete and meeting intake
   requirements will be rated and ranked on the basis of the criteria set forth
   in the applicable announcement and to the extent of available funds, those
   applications with the highest ranking may be approved by DCHA to receive
   financial assistance.

   9404.4. DCHA or its designee will notify all applicants in writing of its
   final decision regarding application approval or disapproval.

   9404.5. The initial approval, if any, of an application by DCHA or its
   designee shall be in the form of a written conditional commitment letter to
   the applicant which shall establish conditions precedent to receipt of
   financial assistance for the property.

   9404.6. Applications for financial assistance will be approved by DCHA or its
   designee upon a determination by DCHA or its designee that the project is
   economically feasible according to the criteria established by DCHA with
   respect to each announcement. The criteria may include one or more of HUD
   guidelines, Partnership Program guidelines and private market requirements and
   constraints and will be furnished to applicants. Criteria used to evaluate
   applications and grant financial assistance may include, but are not limited
   to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Loan to value ratio;
   
   
   
   (b)	Debt coverage ratio;
   
   
   
   (c)	Replacement and operating cost reserves;
   
   
   
   (d)	Property condition, appraisal and market analysis; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Owner capability and credit requirements.

   9404.7. Financial assistance will be limited to amounts needed as determined
   by DCHA to finance or reimburse the eligible project costs.

   9404.8. After a determination is made to grant financial assistance, current
   tenants of dwelling units receiving financial assistance must be eligible to
   receive a Housing Choice Voucher.

   9404.9. Except as otherwise set forth in the applicable announcement, current
   tenants of the property holding Housing Choice Vouchers must not be
   permanently displaced as a result of the project.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 10637 (November 2, 2007).
