                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 14-9499)

When used in this Chapter, the following words or phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed:



AHAP Contract &#8211; Agreement to Enter into Project-Based Housing Choice
Voucher Program Housing Assistance Payments Contract entered into by DCHA and
owner with respect to the property in accordance with the Partnership Program.



Announcement &#8211; one or more announcements that may periodically be made by
DCHA of the availability of financial assistance under this Chapter.



Applicable laws -federal and District of Columbia laws and regulations of the
District of Columbia, DCHA or HUD in effect and applicable to DCHA, the owner or
the property, as such laws and regulations may periodically be amended,
modified, supplemented or replaced.



Dwelling unit &#8211; residential space in existing rental housing that
qualifies under the laws of the District of Columbia as a place of habitation or
abode for a family, including an apartment or house that contains a living room,
kitchen area, sleeping area consisting of 2 or more bedrooms, and bathroom(s).
Dwelling units shall not include any units occupied or to be occupied by the
owner or any family member of the owner.



Energy conservation improvement &#8211; equipment or improvements which, as
determined by DCHA, enhance the energy efficiency of the property, reduce energy
consumption at the property or are otherwise consistent with the energy
conservation policy of HUD or DCHA.



Financial assistance &#8211; loans or grants offered periodically by DCHA
pursuant to this Chapter.



HAP Contract &#8211; Project-Based Housing Choice Voucher Program Housing
Assistance Payments Contract entered into by DCHA and owner with respect to the
property in accordance with the Partnership Program.



Housing Choice Voucher &#8211; a voucher for tenant-based assistance made
available by or on behalf of HUD pursuant the Section 8 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937, as amended.



Housing Quality Standards or HQS &#8211; the housing quality standards
promulgated by HUD and set forth in Section 982.401 of Title 24 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, as such standards may periodically be amended, modified,
supplemented or replaced by HUD.



HUD &#8211; the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.



Owner &#8211; one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies or other privately-controlled legal entities that hold valid
legal title to the property.



Partnership Program &#8211; Partnership Program for Affordable Housing of DCHA
established pursuant to Chapter 93 of this Title 14 of the Code of District of
Columbia Municipal Regulations, as the same may periodically be amended,
modified, supplemented or replaced by DCHA



Project &#8211; (a) rehabilitation or renovation necessary, as determined by
DCHA, to make dwelling units in the property comply with UFAS; (b)
rehabilitation or renovation to construct or install energy conservation
improvements in the property to enhance the energy conservation or efficiency of
the dwelling units as determined by DCHA; or (c) repairs to the property
necessary, as determined by DCHA, to correct or remove any violations of HQS
including repair of specific conditions which could result in future violations
of HQS occurring within five (5) years of the date of approval of the
application for financial assistance.



Property &#8211; the improvements receiving financial assistance.



Rehabilitation work &#8211; renovation, rehabilitation, installation or repair
of and to the property.



Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards or UFAS &#8211; the accessibility
standards made applicable to public housing by HUD for purposes of complying
with Section 504 of Rehabilitation Act of 1977, as amended, currently set forth
in Sections 8.3, 8.32 and Appendix A to Section 40 of Title 24 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, as the same may periodically be amended, modified,
supplemented or replaced.



	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 10637 (November 2, 2007).
