                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPORTING REQUIREMENTS (ยง 9-704)

704.1. Construction companies, doing business in the District of Columbia at
   any time from July 2nd of the preceding tax year to July 1st of the current
   tax year, shall apportion the current value of tangible personal property as
   of July 1st of the current tax year in accordance with the number of days the
   tangible personal property was temporarily located in the District of
   Columbia.

   704.2. Any person owning or holding in trust any tangible personal property
   located or having taxable situs in two (2) or more business locations within
   the District of Columbia on the assessment date shall report all tangible
   personal property on one return.

   704.3. Any nonprofit organization which does not have a personal property tax
   exemption shall report for assessment and taxation on the return any tangible
   personal property which is located or has taxable situs in the District of
   Columbia on the assessment date.

   704.4. The fiduciary shall report on the return any tangible personal property
   held in trust which is located or has a taxable situs in the District of
   Columbia on the assessment date and is used or available for use in a trade or
   business.

   704.5. The owner of any tangible personal property is generally the holder of
   legal title except in either of the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	When title passes on July 1st, only the person last obtaining title on the
   date shall be deemed to have title on July 1st; or
   
   
   
   (b)	When tangible personal property is used as security for a debt and the
   debtor is in possession of the property, the debtor shall be deemed to be the
   owner.

   704.6. Any tangible personal property idle or not placed in service and
   located or having a taxable situs in the District of Columbia on the
   assessment date shall be reported for assessment and taxation on the return by
   the owner.

   704.7. Any tangible personal property available for use or being used for
   emergency or back-up purposes and located or having a taxable situs in the
   District of Columbia shall be reported for assessment and taxation on the
   return by the owner.

   704.8. Any tangible personal property that is part of construction in progress
   performed by the owner for eventual use in the owner&#8217;s business shall be
   reported for assessment and taxation on the return if the tangible personal
   property is located or has a taxable situs in the District of Columbia on the
   assessment date.

   704.9. Any tangible personal property which is moving through the District of
   Columbia or which is consigned to a warehouse in the District of Columbia for
   storage or assembly and which is in transit to a final destination outside the
   District of Columbia acquires no taxable situs in the District of Columbia and
   shall be exempt from taxation.

   704.10. Any tangible personal property claimed to have no situs in the
   District of Columbia shall be entered in the records of the warehouse in which
   it is located as property in transit.

   704.11. The records required under ยง 704.10 shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The date of receipt;
   
   
   
   (b)	The date of withdrawal;
   
   
   
   (c)	The point of origin; and
   
   
   
   (d)	If known, the point of ultimate destination of the property.

   704.12. Any tangible personal property that is no longer in import transit and
   that comes to rest in the District of Columbia on the assessment date shall be
   reported on the return for assessment and taxation by the owner.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 6014, 6018 (August 5, 1988).
