                                  DC REGULATIONS

LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS (ยง 9-702)

702.1. Any real property improvement that does not become an integral part of
   the realty and leasehold improvements shall be subject to personal property
   tax if the improvement meets the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Primary function of the improvement is distinct and different from the
   functions ordinarily performed by the realty;
   
   
   
   (b)	The improvement is devoted primarily to the functions of the business
   conducted by the person who made the annexation;
   
   
   
   (c)	The improvement can be removed without material injury to the real
   property;
   
   
   
   (d)	The improvement can be removed without material injury to the improvement
   itself; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The improvement is not intended to be affixed permanently to real property
   by the person who makes the annexation at that time.

   702.2. For purposes of ยง 702.1(e), the intention of the person making the
   annexation shall be inferred from the following;
   
   
   
   (a)	The nature of the affixed improvement;
   
   
   
   (b)	The relationship of the person making the annexation to the owner of the
   real property and the circumstances surrounding the transaction between these
   parties;
   
   
   
   (c)	The structure and mode of annexation;
   
   
   
   (d)	The existence of an agreement between the parties involved; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The purpose or use for which the annexation has been made.

   702.3. Leasehold improvements shall include, but are not limited to, the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Foundations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Pilings; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Supports related to the installation and use of personal property.

   702.4. Improvements to real property that are personal property include, but
   are not limited to, personal property attached to the extent that the items
   are related to activities or processes conducted within or without the real
   property if the personal property is an integral part of the activity.

   702.5. The following are examples of improvements to real property which are
   personal property for purposes of this section and the Act:
   
   
   
   (a)	Shelving, bins, counters, and related items;
   
   
   
   (b)	Nonpermanent partitions;
   
   
   
   (c)	Supplemental heating; humidification, and air conditioning;
   
   
   
   (d)	Extraordinary lighting; electrical and plumbing facilities;
   
   
   
   (e)	Carpeting over finished floor; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Draperies used as secondary window covering.

   702.6. Any improvement to be taxed as personal property shall be valued in the
   same manner as any other depreciable personal property owned.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 6014, 6017 (August 4, 1988).
   
   
   
   	EDITOR&#8217;S NOTE: Prior to August 5, 1988, the Department of Finance and
   Revenue published Final Rulemaking notice at 22 DCR 4445, 4447 (February 17,
   1976).
