                                  DC REGULATIONS

LEASED TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY (ยง 9-701)

701.1. Leased tangible personal property is any tangible personal property
   which is leased, rented, used or otherwise made available to a person other
   than the owner under a written or unwritten bailment agreement.

   701.2. Leases shall be classified as either capital leases or operating
   leases.

   701.3. Capital Leases shall include sales-type leases, direct financing leases
   and leveraged leases.

   701.4. Capital Leases shall be capitalized by the lessee for federal income
   tax purposes, and shall meet one or more of the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ownership of the tangible personal property is transferred to the lessee
   at, or before, the end of the lease term;
   
   
   
   (b)	The lease permits the lessee to purchase the property or renew the lease
   at a price or rental which is substantially less than the estimated market
   value or fair rental of the leased property at the time of the option to
   purchase or renew the lease is exercised;
   
   
   
   (c)	Some portion of the periodic payments is specifically designated as
   interest or is otherwise readily recognizable as the equivalent of interest;
   
   
   
   (d)	The lease term is equal to seventy-five percent (75%) or more of the
   estimated economic life of the leased property; or
   
   
   
   (e)	The present value of the minimum lease payments equals or exceeds ninety
   percent (90%) of the fair market value of the leased property at the inception
   of the lease.

   701.5. Operating Leases shall include all other leases.

   701.6. Tangible personal property is deemed to be leased at the time the
   property is actually in the possession of the lessee under a contract of
   lease.

   701.7. The lessee of tangible personal property covered by a capital lease has
   the responsibility for reporting the property for taxation and assessment on
   the return if the leased tangible personal property is physically located in
   the District of Columbia on the assessment date.

   701.8. The lessor of tangible personal property covered by an operating lease
   has the responsibility for reporting such property for taxation and assessment
   on the return if the leased tangible personal property is physically located
   in the District of Columbia on the assessment date. The fact that lessee pays
   the personal property tax as specified in the operating lease contract does
   not relieve the lessor&#8217;s responsibility for reporting the tangible
   personal property.

   701.9. Any tangible personal property which is covered by an operating lease
   and which is leased to a nonprofit organization or an agency of the federal,
   state or local government shall be reported for taxation and assessment on the
   return by the lessor if the leased tangible personal property is physically
   located in the District of Columbia on the assessment date.

   701.10. Any tangible personal property covered by a capital lease which is
   leased to a nonprofit organization that does not have a personal property tax
   exemption shall be reported for assessment and taxation on the return by the
   lessee if the leased tangible personal property is physically located in the
   District of Columbia on the assessment date.

   701.11. Any lessor of tangible personal property covered by a capital lease,
   who is required to file the return for his or her own tangible personal
   property, shall report on the return the type of property, lessee&#8217;s name
   and complete address, original retail cost, commencement date of the lease and
   annual rental cost.

   701.12. Any lessee of tangible personal property covered by an operating
   lease, who is required to file the return for his or her own tangible personal
   property, shall report on the return of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The type of property;
   
   
   
   (b)	The lessor&#8217;s name and complete address;
   
   
   
   (c)	The original retail cost;
   
   
   
   (d)	The commencement date of the lease; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The annual rental cost.

   701.13. When the leased tangible personal property is taxed to the lessee, it
   shall be valued at full and true value (original cost), as if the lessee is
   the owner of the property at the inception of the lease term.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 6014, 6016 (August 5, 1988).
   
   
   
   	EDITOR&#8217;S NOTE: Prior to August 5, 1988, the Department of Finance and
   Revenue published Final Rulemaking notice at 22 DCR 4445 (February 17, 1976).
