                                  DC REGULATIONS

FORMAL HEARINGS (ยง 15-613)

613.1. If the parties are unable to reach an agreement within fifteen (15)
   days of the date on which the complaint was filed, and if either party is
   unwilling to extend the informal process, the Commission shall designate a
   Hearing Officer, within five (5) days of the complainant&#8217;s request, who
   shall review the matter de novo.

   613.2. Within thirty (30) days of the date on which the Hearing Officer is
   designated, the Hearing Officer shall hold a hearing, provided the testimony
   of witnesses is necessary in order to make a decision on the complaint. In all
   other cases, the Hearing Officer may permit the parties to present their cases
   in writing.

   613.3. Notice of hearings shall be sent by certified mail to the
   Complainant(s), the PSP, the ANC Chairperson and Single Member District ANC
   Commissioner of the community in which the instrument is located, the Office
   of the People&#8217;s Counsel, and the MPD District in which the instrument(s)
   is located or proposed to be located. The notice shall state that OPC is
   available to assist and/or represent the complainant.

   613.4. The complainant shall not be required, but may elect to appear for a
   hearing where the sole issue is whether the pay telephone is in compliance
   with ยง 609 of this Chapter. In such cases, the written report of the
   Commission staff member who investigated the instrument shall be introduced
   into evidence and that staff member, if called, shall appear as a witness.

   613.5. Any party who has good cause to request that a scheduled hearing be
   postponed shall make that request in writing and submit it to the Commission
   at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the date of the scheduled proceeding.
   The Commission shall not postpone a scheduled proceeding except upon a showing
   of good cause.

   613.6. If a party fails to attend a hearing without good cause, the Hearing
   Officer shall hear and consider the views of the attending party, consider any
   prior written views of the Complainant, evaluate any other information
   available at that time, and, if appropriate, the Commission may require that
   certain restrictions be placed on the pay telephone, suspend service or
   terminate service.

   613.7. Hearings shall be held at times (including evening and Saturday hours)
   convenient to the public and the PSP.

   613.8. Parties may examine any relevant records of the Commission.

   613.9. If a hearing is held, parties shall have the right to present evidence,
   call witnesses, and present oral argument.

   613.10. Witnesses shall testify under oath, and the parties shall have the
   right to examine and cross-examine all witnesses.

   613.11. The Hearing Officer shall have the discretion to examine witnesses,
   limit any line of questioning, and limit the time for argument.

   613.12. All parties shall be provided a reasonable opportunity to present
   rebuttal testimony.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 1151 (February 9, 2001).
