                                  DC REGULATIONS

BURDEN OF PROOF (ยง 15-614)

614.1. The burden of proof shall be by a preponderance of the evidence.

   614.2. A preponderance of the evidence is that degree of relevant evidence
   which a reasonable mind, considering the record as a whole, would accept as
   sufficient to find a contested fact more probably true than untrue.

   614.3. The PSP shall bear the burden of proof with regard to issues of whether
   the pay telephone is in compliance with these Rules, except as provided in ยง
   614.4.

   614.4. The complainant shall bear the burden of proof with regard to issues of
   whether the pay telephone is associated with illegal purposes or constitutes a
   public nuisance.

   614.5. In weighing evidence regarding whether an existing or proposed pay
   telephone is, or is likely to be, associated with illegal activity, the
   Hearing Officer shall give great weight to any written statement or testimony
   from an MPD officer that, based on his or her knowledge and experience, the
   installation or continued operation of the pay telephone significantly
   contributes, or is likely to significantly contribute, to criminal activity in
   the neighborhood and, thereby, adversely affect the health, safety, and
   welfare of the residents.

   614.6. In weighing evidence regarding whether a pay telephone constitutes a
   public nuisance, the Hearing Officer shall give great weight to the written
   recommendation of the ANC for the neighborhood in which the pay telephone is
   located or proposed to be located.

   614.7. For the purpose of this section, &#8220;great weight&#8221; means that,
   unless there is a compelling reason to do other-wise, the Hearing Officer
   shall defer to the opinion of the MPD or ANC.

   614.8. A pay telephone shall constitute a public nuisance if it adversely
   affects the common rights of the surrounding community, including, for
   example, injury to community members&#8217; health, safety, peace, comfort, or
   convenience.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 1151 (February 9, 2001).
