                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMMERCIAL APPLICATORS[COLON] STANDARDS FOR DETERMINATION OF COMPETENCY (§
20-2304)

2304.1. The standards prescribed in the section shall be used to determine the
   competency of each commercial applicator prior to his or her certification.

   2304.2. The District standards for the certification of commercial applicators
   prescribed in this section are substantially identical to the standards set
   forth by EPA.

   2304.3. All commercial applicators shall demonstrate practical knowledge of
   the principles and practices of pest control and safe use of pesticides.

   2304.4. Testing shall be based on examples of problems and situations
   appropriate to the particular category or subcategory of the
   applicator&#8217;s certification, as well as the following areas of
   competency:
   
   
   
   (a)	Label and labeling comprehension, including the following factors:
   
   
   
   (1)	The general format and terminology of pesticide labels and labeling;
   
   
   
   (2)	The understanding of instructions, warnings, terms, symbols, and other
   information commonly appearing on pesticide labels;
   
   
   
   (3)	Classification of the product, general and restricted; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Necessity for use consistent with the label;
   
   
   
   (b)	Pests, including factors such as the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Common features of pest organisms and characteristics of damage needed for
   pest recognition;
   
   
   
   (2)	Recognition of relevant pests; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Pest development and biology as it may be relevant to problem
   identification and control;
   
   
   
   (c)	Safety, including the following factors:
   
   
   
   (1)	Pesticide toxicity and hazard to man and common exposure routes;
   
   
   
   (2)	Common types of pesticide accidents;
   
   
   
   (3)	Precautions necessary to guard against injury to applicators and other
   individuals in or near treated areas;
   
   
   
   (4)	Need for and use of protective clothing and equipment;
   
   
   
   (5)	Symptoms of pesticide poisoning;
   
   
   
   (6)	First aid and other procedures to be followed in case of a pesticide
   accident; and
   
   
   
   (7)	Proper identification, storage, transport, handling, mixing procedures,
   and disposal methods for pesticides and used pesticide containers, including
   precautions to be taken to prevent children from having access to pesticides
   and pesticide containers;
   
   
   
   (d)	Environment &#8211; including the potential environmental consequences of
   the use and misuse of pesticides as may be influenced by factors such as the
   following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Weather and other climatic conditions;
   
   
   
   (2)	Types of terrain, soil, or other substrate;
   
   
   
   (3)	Presence of fish, wildlife, and other non-target organisms; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Drainage patterns;
   
   
   
   (e)	Pesticides, including factors such as the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Types of pesticides;
   
   
   
   (2)	Types of formulations;
   
   
   
   (3)	Compatibility, synergism, persistence, and animal and plant toxicity of
   the formulations;
   
   
   
   (4)	Hazards and residues associated with use;
   
   
   
   (5)	Factors that influence effectiveness or that lead to problems such as a
   resistance to pesticides; and
   
   
   
   (6)	Dilution procedures;
   
   
   
   (f)	Equipment, including the following factors:
   
   
   
   (1)	Types of equipment and advantages and limitations of each type; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Uses, maintenance, and calibration;
   
   
   
   (g)	Application techniques, including the following factors:
   
   
   
   (1)	Methods of procedure used to apply various formulations of pesticides,
   solutions and gases, together with a knowledge of which technique of
   application to use in a given situation;
   
   
   
   (2)	Relationship of discharge and placement of pesticides to proper use,
   unnecessary use, and misuse; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Prevention of drift and pesticide loss into the environment; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Laws and regulations, including all applicable District and federal laws
   and regulations.

   2304.5. Some of the factors referenced in this section are of particular
   importance because of the different types of activities carried out by
   applicators in each category. These factors shall be especially stressed and
   specifically reflected in state certification standards, as appropriate.

   2304.6. Commercial applicators shall be particularly qualified with respect to
   the following practical knowledge standards:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ornamental and Turf Pest Control &#8211; applicators shall demonstrate
   practical knowledge of pesticide problems associated with the production and
   maintenance of ornamental trees, plantings, shrubs, and turf, including
   cognizance of potential phytotoxicity due to a wide variety of plant material,
   drift, and persistence beyond the intended period of pest control. Because of
   the frequent proximity of human habitations to application activities,
   applicators shall be knowledgeable about the various application methods that
   will minimize or prevent hazards to humans, pets, and other domestic animals;
   
   
   
   (b)	Aquatic Pest Control &#8211; applicators shall demonstrate practical
   knowledge of the secondary effects that can be caused by improper application
   rates, incorrect formulations, and faulty application of restricted use
   pesticides. used in this category. Applicators shall demonstrate practical
   knowledge of various water use situations and the potential of down-stream
   effects. Further, applicators shall have practical knowledge concerning
   potential pesticide effects on plants, fish, birds, beneficial insects, and
   other organisms which may be present in aquatic environments. These
   applicators shall demonstrate practical knowledge of the principles of limited
   area application;
   
   
   
   (c)	Right-of-Way Pest Control &#8211; applicators shall demonstrate practical
   knowledge of a wide variety of environments, since rights-of-ways can traverse
   many different terrains, including waterways. These applicators shall
   demonstrate practical knowledge of problems of runoff, drift, and excessive
   foliage destruction, and ability to recognize target organisms. They also
   shall demonstrate practical knowledge of the nature of herbicides and the need
   for containment of these pesticides within the rights-of-way area, and the
   impact of their application activities in the adjacent areas and communities;
   
   
   
   (d)	Industrial, Institutional, Structural, and Health Related Pest Control
   &#8211; applicators shall demonstrate a practical knowledge of a wide variety
   of pests, including their life cycles, types of formulations appropriate for
   their control, and methods of application that avoid contamination of food,
   damage and contamination of habitat, and exposure of people and pets. Since
   human exposure, including babies, children, pregnant women, and elderly
   people, is frequently a potential problem, applicators shall demonstrate a
   practical knowledge of the specific factors that may lead to a hazardous
   condition, including continuous exposure in the various situations encountered
   in this category. Because health related pest control may involve outdoor
   applications, applicators shall also demonstrate practical knowledge of
   environmental conditions that are particularly related to this activity;
   
   
   
   (e)	Public Health Pest Control &#8211; applicators shall demonstrate practical
   knowledge of vector-disease transmission as it relates to and influences
   application programs. A wide variety of pests is involved, and it is essential
   that these be known and recognized, and that appropriate life cycles and
   habitats be understood as a basis for a control strategy. These applicators
   shall have practical knowledge of a great variety of environments ranging from
   streams to those conditions found in buildings. They also should have
   practical knowledge of the importance and employment of such nonchemical
   control methods as sanitation, waste disposal, and drainage;
   
   
   
   (f)	Regulatory Pest Control &#8211; applicators shall demonstrate practical
   knowledge of regulated pests, applicable laws relating to quarantine and other
   regulation of pests, and the potential impact on the environment of restricted
   use pesticides used in suppression and eradication programs. They shall
   demonstrate knowledge of factors influencing introduction, spread, and
   population dynamics of relevant pests. Their knowledge shall extend beyond
   that required by their immediate duties, since their services are frequently
   required in other areas of the country where emergency measures are invoked to
   control regulated pests and where individual judgments must be made in new
   situations;
   
   
   
   (g)	Demonstration and Research Pest Control &#8211; persons demonstrating the
   safe and effective use of pesticides to other applicators and the public shall
   meet comprehensive standards reflecting a broad spectrum of pesticide uses.
   Many different pest problem situations will be encountered in the course of
   activities associated with demonstration; and practical knowledge of problems,
   pests, and population levels occurring in each demonstration situation is
   required. Further, applicators shall demonstrate an understanding of
   pesticide-organism interactions, and the importance of integrating pesticide
   use with other control methods. In general, it shall be expected that
   applicators doing demonstration pest control work possess a practical
   knowledge of all of the standards detailed in § 2305.4 of this section. In
   addition, applicators shall meet the specific standards required for the
   categories listed as §§ 2305.6(a), (b), (c), and (d) as may be applicable to
   their particular activity; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Miscellaneous Pest Control &#8211; applicators shall demonstrate a
   practical knowledge of the type of pest(s) and pesticide(s) problems as it
   relates to a particular type of pest control activity. If appropriate, the
   applicator may be required to demonstrate a practical knowledge of a wide
   variety of pests, including their life cycles, types of formulations
   appropriate for their control, and methods of application, potential effects
   on the environment, and principles of limited area application. The Department
   shall specify a specific sub-category pertaining to the applicant&#8217;s
   request for certification.

   2304.7. Persons conducting field research or method improvement work with
   restricted use pesticides shall be expected to know the general standards
   detailed in § 2305.4. In addition, they shall be expected to know the
   specific standards required for the categories listed in §§ 2305.6(a), (b),
   (c), (d), (e), and (f), as may be applicable to their particular activity or,
   alternatively, to meet the more inclusive requirements listed under
   &#8220;Demonstration.&#8221;
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 3044 (October 6,
   1978), incorporating Proposed Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 2118 (August 25,
   1978): as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 30 DCR 2204, 2207 (May 13,
   1983).
