                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRIVATE APPLICATORS[COLON] STANDARDS FOR DETERMINATION OF COMPETENCY (ยง
20-2309)

2309.1. Competency in the use and handling of pesticides by a private
   applicator shall be determined by procedures set forth in this section.

   2309.2. As a minimum requirement for certification, a private applicator shall
   show that he or she possesses a practical knowledge of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The pest problems and pest control practices associated with the
   agricultural operations, proper storage, use, handling, and disposal of the
   pesticides and containers with which the applicator will be involved; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The legal responsibilities related to the applicator&#8217;s job.

   2309.3. An applicator&#8217;s practical knowledge as described by the EPA at
   40 CFR ยง 171.5 includes the ability to do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Recognize common pests to be controlled and the damage caused by these
   pests;
   
   
   
   (b)	Read and understand the label and labeling information, including the
   common name of pesticides the applicator applies, the pest or pests to be
   controlled, the timing and methods of applications, the safest precautions,
   the pre-harvest or reentry restrictions, and any specific disposal procedures;
   
   
   
   (c)	Apply pesticides in accordance with label instructions and warnings,
   including the ability to prepare the proper concentration of pesticide to be
   used under particular circumstances, taking into account such factors as area
   to be covered, speed at which application equipment will be driven, and the
   quantity dispersed in a given period of operation;
   
   
   
   (d)	Recognize local environmental situations that must be considered during an
   application in order to avoid contamination; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Recognize poisoning symptoms and know procedures to follow in case of a
   pesticide accident.

   2309.4. The competence of each private applicator shall be verified by the
   Director through the administration of a private applicator certification
   system which ensures that the private applicator is competent, based upon the
   standards set forth in this section, to use the restricted use pesticides
   under limitations of applicable District and federal laws and regulations.

   2309.5. The certification system required by ยง 2309.4 shall employ a written
   demonstration of competence or any other equivalent system as may be adopted
   by the Director subject to the approval of the EPA.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 3044 (October 6,
   1978), incorporating Proposed Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 2118 (August 25,
   1978).
