                                  DC REGULATIONS

COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES (R-1) (ยง 11-210)

210.1. Use as a college or university that is an academic institution of
   higher learning, including a college or university hospital, dormitory,
   fraternity, or sorority house proposed to be located on the campus of a
   college or university, shall be permitted as a special exception in an R-1
   District if approved by the Zoning Commission under ยง 3104, subject to the
   provisions of this section.

   210.2. Use as a college or university shall be located so that it is not
   likely to become objectionable to neighboring property because of noise,
   traffic, number of students, or other objectionable conditions.

   210.3. In R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5-A, and R-5-B Districts, the maximum bulk
   requirements normally applicable in the districts may be increased for
   specific buildings or structures; provided, that the total bulk of all
   buildings and structures on the campus shall not exceed the gross floor area
   prescribed for the R-5-B District. In all other Residence Districts, similar
   bulk increases may also be permitted; provided, that the total bulk of all
   buildings and structures on the campus shall not exceed the gross floor area
   prescribed for the R-5-D District. Because of permissive increases as
   applicable to normal bulk requirements in the low-density districts regulated
   by this title, it is the intent of this subsection to prevent unreasonable
   campus expansion into improved low-density districts.

   210.4. As a prerequisite to requesting a special exception for each college or
   university use, the applicant shall have submitted to the Commission for its
   approval a plan for developing the campus as a whole, showing the location,
   height, and bulk, where appropriate, of all present and proposed improvements,
   including but not limited to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Buildings and parking and loading facilities;
   
   
   
   (b)	Screening, signs, streets, and public utility facilities;
   
   
   
   (c)	Athletic and other recreational facilities; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A description of all activities conducted or to be conducted on the
   campus, and of the capacity of all present and proposed campus development.

   210.5. Within a reasonable distance of the college or university campus, and
   subject to compliance with ยง 210.2, the Commission may also permit the
   interim use of land or improved property with any use that the Commission may
   determine is a proper college or university function.

   210.6. When a major new building that has been proposed in a campus plan is
   instead moved off-campus, the previously designated site shall not be
   designated for, or devoted to, a different major new building unless the
   Commission has approved an amendment to the campus plan applicable to the
   site; provided, that for this purpose a major new building is defined as one
   specifically identified in the campus plan.

   210.7. In reviewing and deciding a campus plan application or new building
   construction pursuant to a campus plan, the Commission shall consider, to the
   extent they are relevant, the policies of the District Elements of the
   Comprehensive Plan.

   210.8. As an integral part of the application requesting approval of new
   building construction pursuant to a campus plan, the college or university
   shall certify and document that the proposed building or amendment is within
   the floor area ratio (FAR) limit for the campus as a whole, based upon the
   computation included in the most recently approved campus plan and the FARs of
   any other buildings constructed or demolished since the campus plan was
   approved.

   210.9. Before taking final action on an application for use as a college or
   university, the Commission shall submit the application to the D.C. Office of
   Planning and the D.C. Department of Transportation for review and written
   reports.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: ยง3101.46 of Zoning Regulations, effective May 12, 1958; renumbered
   by Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 6916, 6918 (September 16, 1988); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 6623 (September 30, 1994);
   amended and renumbered by Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 1045, 1046
   (February 27, 1998); and amended by Final Rulemaking, 47 DCR 9725, 9728-29
   (December 8, 2000).
