                                  DC REGULATIONS

UNDUE HARDSHIP (ยง 29-6703)

6703.1. Undue hardship shall exist if one of the following criteria has been
   met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The heir, legatee, devisee or other interested person may become eligible
   for assistance payments without the proceeds from the estate;
   
   
   
   (b)	The decedent&#8217;s home is the sole-income producing asset of a family
   business and recovery would result in an heir, legatee, devisee or other
   interested person losing their means of livelihood. The following two
   conditions shall be met to qualify under this criteria:
   
   
   
   (1)	The family business has been in operation at the property for at least
   twelve (12) months preceding the death; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Income from the business provides one hundred percent (100%) of a
   surviving heir, legatee, devisee or other interested person&#8217;s
   livelihood;
   
   
   
   (c)	If the heir, legatee, devisee or other interested person is allowed to
   collect the proceeds from the estate, that individual may become ineligible
   for assistance payments; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Recovery would deprive the heir, legatee, devisee or other interested
   person of shelter and that individual lacks the financial means to obtain and
   maintain shelter.

   6703.2. Undue hardship shall not exist under any of the following
   circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	When recovery would merely inconvenience or restrict the lifestyle of the
   heir, legatee, devisee or other interested person;
   
   
   
   (b)	The heir, legatee, devisee or other interested person divest assets to
   qualify under the undue hardship provision; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Recovery will merely prevent the heir, legatee, devisee or other
   interested person from receiving an anticipated inheritance.

   6703.3. MAA may compromise its claim when collection of the full amount would
   result in an undue hardship. Consideration may be given to the following
   factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	Contribution by the heir, legatee, devisee or other interested person to
   the value of the asset or to the support or care of the decedent;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any outstanding debt with a higher priority, such as a mortgage, which has
   been assumed by the heir, legatee, devisee or other interested person; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Other compelling circumstances as determined by the District.

   6703.4. Any waiver for undue hardship described in section 6703.1 shall only
   apply to the proportionate share of the decedent&#8217;s estate that passes to
   the heir, legatee, devisee or other interested person.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 6353 (August 4, 2006).
