                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE TO TENANTS (§ 21-431)

431.1. At least ten (10) working days prior to terminating water and sewer
   services to the premises, the General Manager shall send a notice to each
   apartment unit on the premises.

   431.2. The notice shall be addressed to the authorized tenant(s) in the
   building, but the tenant(s) need not be identified by name. Identifying the
   apartment unit and the correct address of the premises shall be sufficient to
   provide the tenant with the notice required under this subsection.

   431.3. The notice shall provide the tenant(s) with the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The owner is delinquent in the payment of water and sewer service charges;
   
   
   
   (b)	Water and sewer services to the premises may be terminated;
   
   
   
   (c)	WASA may permit the tenants to establish a water and sewer account in
   their own names if the General Manager considers it is practicable under the
   provisions of § 430.1 of this section;
   
   
   
   (d)	The tenants may petition the Superior Court to establish a receivership;
   
   
   
   (e)	The tenants have the right to deduct all future payments made by the
   tenants for water and sewer services from rent owed as provided by § 2(g) of
   D.C. Law 8-136;
   
   
   
   (f)	The tenants may request to receive service in their own name either
   individually or collectively in accordance with the provisions of § 428;
   
   
   
   (g)	The time period within which the tenants or their authorized agents must
   request to assume prospective responsibility for water and sewer service
   charges; and
   
   
   
   (h)	The mailing address and telephone number of the office within WASA, where
   the tenants can obtain additional information.

   431.4. Each tenant shall agree in writing to establish an individual or
   collective water and sewer utility service account within thirty (30) days of
   the date on the notice issued pursuant to § 431.3.

   431.5. Each tenant shall establish individual water and sewer service accounts
   within sixty (60) days of the date the General Manager finds that the
   following requirements are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	It is practicable to install individual meters for each unit on the
   premises, and
   
   
   
   (b)	A tenant group that meets the requirements of this chapter exists.

   431.6. The tenants&#8217; group or association shall establish a water and
   sewer service account within thirty (30) days of the date the Director
   determines that it is practicable for the tenants to assume prospective
   responsibility for water and sewer and groundwater sewer service charges.

   431.7. Tenants who move into the premises shall execute the agreement with the
   tenant group or association or establish an individual account.

   431.8. The failure to execute a written agreement for individual or collective
   accounts and to establish a water and sewer service account in a timely manner
   shall result in the termination of water and sewer services to the premises.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 5358 (June 18, 1999); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 5358 (June 18, 1999).
