                                  DC REGULATIONS

ACCESS, MAINTENANCE, AND OPERATION (ยง 11-2204)

2204.1. All loading berths and service/delivery loading spaces including
   access aisles, driveways, and maneuvering areas shall be paved and maintained
   with bituminous, concrete, or brick materials or a combination of these
   materials or other materials, if approved by the D.C. Department of
   Transportation as structurally equivalent or better, that form an all-weather
   impervious surface and that are at least six inches (6 in.) in thickness.

   2204.2. All required loading berths and service/delivery loading spaces shall
   be directly accessible from an improved street or alley or accessible from an
   improved street or alley via graded and unobstructed private driveways that
   form an all-weather impervious surface.

   2204.3. An improved street or alley providing access to required loading
   berths and service/delivery loading spaces shall have a minimum width of ten
   feet (10 ft.) and be paved in compliance with the standards of the D.C.
   Department of Transportation.

   2204.4. A private driveway or access aisle leading to a loading berth or
   service/delivery loading space shall have a minimum width of twelve feet (12
   ft.), a maximum width of twenty-five feet (25 ft.), and a maximum slope of
   twelve percent (12%).

   2204.5. For a building or structure having three (3) or more required loading
   berths in one location, the loading berths may be arranged so that access to a
   loading berth is across the length of one (1) other loading berth.

   2204.6. Driveway openings leading to loading berths and service/delivery
   loading spaces shall meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	The openings serving a loading berth or service/delivery loading space
   that is thirty feet (30 ft.) deep or less shall be at least forty feet (40
   ft.) from the nearest street intersection measured from the intersection of
   the curb lines extended;
   
   
   
   (b)	The openings serving a loading berth that is more than thirty feet (30
   ft.) deep shall be at least fifty-five feet (55 ft.) from the nearest street
   intersection measured from the intersection of the curb lines extended; and
   
   
   
   (c)	No curb cut providing access to a loading berth or service/delivery
   loading space shall be located in such a way that a vehicle entering or
   exiting from the loading berth blocks any street intersection.

   2204.7. Detailed plans shall be submitted to the D.C. Department of
   Transportation for approval of all curb cuts and driveway openings to ensure
   that compliance with the Zoning Regulations does not conflict with the
   responsibility of the Department of Transportation to protect safety in the
   public space.

   2204.8. A loading berth or service/delivery loading space, including access
   aisles, driveways, and maneuvering areas, shall be maintained and used as a
   loading berth or service/delivery loading space for as long as the use exists
   that the loading berth or service/delivery loading space is designed to
   service.

   2204.9. No other use shall be conducted from or upon the loading berth or
   service/delivery loading space or any portion thereof.

   2204.10. All parts of the loading berth or service/delivery loading space
   including access aisles, driveways, and maneuvering areas shall be kept free
   of refuse, debris, and other obstructions of any kind.

   2204.11. A loading berth or service/delivery loading space shall be designed
   so that it is usable as a loading berth or service/delivery loading space by a
   vehicle that the loading berth or service/delivery loading space is designed
   to serve.

   2204.12. Open loading berths or service/delivery loading spaces shall be
   screened from all contiguous residential property located in an R-1, R-2, R-3,
   R-4, or R-5-A District by a solid masonry wall at least twelve inches (12 in.)
   thick and seventy-two inches (72 in.) high unless the loading berth is
   separated from contiguous residential property by at least twenty-five feet
   (25 ft.) or by a street or alley. Any lighting used to illuminate a loading
   berth, loading platform, or service/delivery loading space shall be arranged
   so that all direct rays of lighting are confined to the surface of the berth,
   platform, or space.

   2204.13. If approved by the Board of Zoning Adjustment in accordance with the
   requirements of ยง 3104 for special exceptions, the requirements in ยง 2204
   may be waived or modified; provided:
   
   
   
   (a)	Existing protective and screening walls on the lot or on adjacent
   residential property are adequate;
   
   
   
   (b)	The modifications do not adversely affect traffic conditions or use of
   other public space;
   
   
   
   (c)	No adverse effect would be caused by the requested waiver or modification
   of standards on adjacent properties or topography;
   
   
   
   (d)	The resulting loading berths and approaches to the berths are usable by
   the type of vehicles they are designed to serve;
   
   
   
   (e)	The Board may impose conditions as to screening, lighting, coping,
   setbacks, fences, the location of entrances and exits, widening of abutting
   alleys, or any other requirement it deems necessary to protect adjacent or
   nearby property and to promote the public health, safety, and welfare; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Before taking final action on an application, the Board shall refer the
   application to the D.C. Department of Transportation for review and report.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 31 DCR 6585, 6623 (December 28, 1984);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9741-43 (December 8, 2000),
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR
   8335, 8508-09 (October 20, 2000).
