                                  DC REGULATIONS

EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS (§ 17-6202)

6202.1. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, an applicant shall
   furnish proof satisfactory to the Board, in accordance with § 504(f) of the
   District of Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985 (“Act”),
   effective March 25 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1205.04(f))
   (2001), of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the applicant has earned a baccalaureate degree from a four (4) year
   institution of higher education which was accredited, at the time the degree
   was conferred, by an accrediting body recognized by the Secretary of the
   United States Department of Education or the Council on Postsecondary
   Accreditation;
   
   
   
   (b)	That an applicant has completed the following courses:
   
   
   
   (1)	Accounting, three (3) credit hours;
   
   
   
   (2)	Human resources or personnel management, three (3) credit hours;
   
   
   
   (3)	Management, three (3) credit hours;
   
   
   
   (4)	Gerontology, three (3) credit hours;
   
   
   
   (5)	Health care law or health care ethics, three (3) credit hours; and
   
   
   
   (6)	Management of long term care institutions, three (3) credit hours; and
   
   
   
   (c)	That the applicant meets one of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	Has successfully completed an Administrator In Training (A.I.T.) program;
   
   
   
   (2)	Has worked for at least one (1) year during or after completion of the
   baccalaureate program in a nursing home licensed in the District under the
   general or immediate supervision of a nursing home administrator which work
   meets the requirements listed in § 6202.4, by submitting with the application
   a signed statement from each supervisor and preceptor, as required in §
   6202.5; or
   
   
   
   (3)	Has earned a master&#8217;s degree in a program accredited by the
   Accrediting Commission on Education for Health Services Administration
   (ACEHSA) which meets one of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (A)	The program included an experiential component for a period of not less
   than six (6) months in a licensed nursing home; or
   
   
   
   (B)	The program was supplemented by employment in a licensed nursing home for
   six (6) months during or after completion of the master’s program, which
   employment was under the general or immediate supervision of a nursing home
   administrator, and which meets the requirements listed in § 6202.4(c), by
   submitting with the application a signed statement from each supervisor, as
   required in § 6202.5.
   
   
   
   (d)	That the applicant meets one of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	That the applicant has worked for at least one (1) year during or after
   completion of the baccalaureate program in a nursing home licensed in the
   District under the general or immediate supervision of a nursing home
   administrator, which work meets the requirements listed in § 6202.4, by
   submitting with the application a signed statement from each supervisor, as
   required in § 6202.5; or
   
   
   
   (2)	That the applicant has earned a master&#8217;s degree in a program
   accredited by the Accrediting Commission on Education for Health Services
   Administration (ACEHSA) which meets one of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (A)	The program included an experiential component in a licensed nursing home;
   or
   
   
   
   (B)	The program was supplemented by employment in a licensed nursing home for
   six (6) month during or after completion of the master&#8217;s program, which
   employment was under the general or immediate supervision of a nursing home
   administrator, and which meets the requirements listed in § 6202.4, by
   submitting with the application a signed statement from each supervisor, as
   required in § 6202.5.

   6202.2. An applicant shall submit to the Board with the completed application
   a certified transcript of the applicant&#8217;s educational record(s), and
   when required by the Board, official course descriptions.

   6202.3. Required courses shall be taken at an educational institution
   accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the Secretary of the United
   States Department of Education or the Council on Postsecondary Accreditation.

   6202.4. The practical experience required by §§ 6202.1(c)(1) and
   6202.1(c)(2) shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be rated as at least satisfactory by each supervisor and the preceptor;
   
   
   
   (b)	Include practice under general supervision averaging at least thirty-five
   (35) hours per week, two (2) hours per week of which shall be under immediate
   supervision; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Encompass all aspects of the practice of nursing home administration,
   including the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Preparing and reviewing a budget encompassing all operations and
   contracting by the nursing home;
   
   
   
   (2)	Preparing a cost analysis of specific operational categories within the
   nursing home;
   
   
   
   (3)	Developing or reviewing Medicare and Medicaid cost reports;
   
   
   
   (4)	Reviewing all federal and District of Columbia laws relating to nursing
   homes, including reporting and filing requirements, residents&#8217; care,
   residents&#8217; rights, and pharmacy services;
   
   
   
   (5)	Participating in the daily operations of each operational unit within the
   nursing home, including the making of administrative rounds;
   
   
   
   (6)	Reviewing procedures for handling medical emergencies and emergencies
   involving fires and cut-offs of water, gas, and electricity;
   
   
   
   (7)	Bookkeeping and financial management;
   
   
   
   (8)	Procurement, including purchasing and contracting procedures and
   decisions;
   
   
   
   (9)	Personnel management, including the recruitment of employees and
   volunteers, review and revision of position descriptions, and development and
   application of performance standards;
   
   
   
   (10)	Public relations;
   
   
   
   (11)	Employees and volunteer training programs;
   
   
   
   (12)	Residents&#8217; care, including participation in the care of residents
   involved in daily activities;
   
   
   
   (13)	Therapeutic services, including physical, occupational, and speech
   therapy;
   
   
   
   (14)	Out-patient services available in the community;
   
   
   
   (15)	Reviewing transfer agreements;
   
   
   
   (16)	Generating and maintaining medical records;
   
   
   
   (17)	Engineering and maintenance functions;
   
   
   
   (18)	Housekeeping, including cleaning schedules, trash removal arrangements,
   and laundering;
   
   
   
   (19)	Nursing, medical, dental, podiatric, pharmacy, and laboratory services
   procedures;
   
   
   
   (20)	Food and nutrition services;
   
   
   
   (21)	Counseling and social work services;
   
   
   
   (22)	Recreation programs;
   
   
   
   (23)	Interaction with residents&#8217; council;
   
   
   
   (24)	Safety and accident prevention procedures and devices;
   
   
   
   (25)	Participation in the admission, transfer, and discharge of residents;
   
   
   
   (26)	The role and functions of the governing body;
   
   (27)	Evaluating the quality of resident care services;
   
   
   
   (28)	Reviewing the quality of resident care services; and
   
   
   
   (29)	Acquiring a knowledge of the residents&#8217; rights program.
   
   
   
   (d)	If the applicant demonstrates by education or professional experience that
   any portion or all of the practice experience required under § 6202.1(c) has
   been met, the Board, in its discretion, may approve up to one thousand (1000)
   hours of practical credits toward the Administrator In Training Program
   (A.I.T.). The Board may award credit for prior experience if the experience
   was received within the immediately preceding five (5) years and in one (1) of
   the following areas: 
   
   (1) 	Assistant administrator in a hospital;
   
   (2) 	Hospital administrator;
   
   (3) 	Assistant administrator or a department head in a licensed nursing home;
   
   (4) 	Nursing home administrator licensed in another state;
   
   (5) 	Resident or intern in a program offered by an accredited college or
   university for the purpose of satisfying the requirements for a baccalaureate
   or master’s degree in health care administration;
   
   (6) 	An A.I.T. program in another state, if the program is substantially
   comparable to the A.I.T. program in the District of Columbia, as determined by
   the Board, and the individual successfully completed the program;
   
   (7) 	Executive director of a continuing care retirement community;
   
   (8) 	Assisted living manager;
   
   (9) 	Health-care-related senior management official; or
   
   			(10) 	Non-health-care-related senior management official.

   6202.5. An applicant under § 6202.1(c)(1) or § 6202.1(c)(2) shall
   demonstrate the required experience by submitting with the application a
   signed statement from each supervisor and preceptor during the required period
   of experience, on a form approved by the Board, which sets forth the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The location at which and period of time during which the supervision took
   place;
   
   
   
   (b)	The hours of general supervision of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (c)	The hours of immediate supervision of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (d)	The specific nature of and responsibilities included in the
   applicant&#8217;s practice;
   
   
   
   (e)	A rating of the applicant&#8217;s performance; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The preceptor&#8217;s license number in the District of Columbia or other
   jurisdiction in which the supervision took place.
   
   
   
   (g)	Proof satisfactory to the Board that the applicant has received the
   required degree from a foreign institution that was accredited, at the time
   the degree was conferred, by an accrediting body recognized by the national
   government of the country in which the institution is located; or
   
   
   
   (h)	A certification from a private education evaluation service approved by
   the Board that the applicant&#8217;s foreign education is substantially
   equivalent to the education required by this chapter.

   6202.6. Supervised practice which violates the Act or this chapter shall not
   be acceptable experience.

   6202.7. A person who is required to complete an A.I.T. program shall submit
   			an application for the program. The application shall be on a form
   				provided by the Board.

   6202.8. The Board may approve an application for an A.I.T. program if it
   determines that the application contains satisfactory evidence that:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The background and circumstances of the applicant and preceptor, or
   preceptors, qualify them for the A.I.T. program;
   
   
   
   (b) 	The applicant is at least eighteen (18) years old;
   
   
   
   (c) 	The applicant is of good moral character;
   
   
   
   (d) 	The applicant’s training will be supervised by a preceptor approved by
   the Board; and
   
   
   
   (e) 	The A.I.T. program meets all the other requirements of this section.

   6202.9. The Board shall issue an approval specifying the length of time 				of
   the A.I.T.

   6202.10. The A.I.T. candidate or preceptor may request a meeting with the
   				Board 	at the mid-point of the A.I.T. program.

   6202.11. A preceptor for an A.I.T. program may not be responsible for more
   			than two (2) A.I.T.s at any one time.
   
   
   
   6202.12 	If an A.I.T. candidate does not meet all of the requirements for
   licensure after completing the A.I.T. program, the preceptor and candidate may
   request the Board allow the candidate and preceptor to work out a plan
   satisfactory to the Board to continue the A.I.T. program beyond the time
   originally specified until all the requirements are met.
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3774 (May 20, 1988); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 2747, 2752 (May 4, 1990); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 10622 (November 19, 2004); as amended
   by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 9400 (November 4, 2011).
