                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXEMPTIONS (§ 21-5332)

5332.1. The following procurements may be made without competition and are not
   subject to the competitive requirements set forth in § 5331.
   
   
   
   5332.2 	Micro-purchases: Procurements at or under the threshold for
   micro-purchases established in the DC WASA Procurement Manual may be made
   without competition.

   5332.3. Sole Source: Goods and services, including construction, that are
   available from only one vendor or contractor (sole source) may be purchased
   without competition. Circumstances where sole source purchasing is permitted
   include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   Specific replacement parts or components for equipment;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Equipment upgrade and repair, repair services, or parts unavailable from any
   other source except the original equipment manufacturer or its designated
   service representative;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Upgrade to existing software, available only from the producer of the software
   who sells only on a direct basis;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   When there is a need to standardize equipment, or to facilitate the
   interoperability of equipment or systems;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   When there is substantial duplication of costs to the Authority that is not
   expected to be recovered through competition;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Utility services, when from only one source; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Intellectual property rights that are owned or controlled by one source and
   made available through that source. These rights would include patents,
   copyrights, licenses, secret processes, material monopolies or other
   established rights that affect distribution of goods and services.

   5332.4. Categorical Exemptions: The following categories of purchases are
   exempt from the competitive procurement methods and may be purchased without
   competition:
   
   
   
   Purchase, rent or lease of land or other interest in real property;
   
   
   
   Memberships, films, manuscripts, publications, educational services;
   
   
   
   Personal property sold at an auction by a licensed auctioneer;
   
   
   
   Personal property or services provided by another public entity, agency or
   Authority;
   
   
   
   Legal services;
   
   
   
   Research programs;
   
   
   
   Advertisements in newspapers or other publications;
   
   
   
   (h)	Intergovernmental agreements and cooperative agreements with other
   institutions where the primary purpose is not the purchase of goods, services
   or construction;
   
   
   
   (i) 	Travel services; and
   
   
   
   (j)	The following services provided by the Metropolitan Washington Council of
   Governments:
   
   
   
   (1)	Services and equipment related to pollution control measures and water
   quality management required by the Blue Plains Intermunicipal Agreement;
   
   
   
   (2)	Studies, including modeling and water sampling for the purpose of
   validating assumptions on the effect of pollutants discharged into the Potomac
   River and its tributaries by wastewater treatment facilities; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Specialized security equipment for detection of chemical, biological and
   radiological contaminants in the waterways.

   5332.5. Emergency Procurements: Emergency Procurements may be made without
   competition.  An emergency is a situation which creates an immediate need for
   goods or services, including construction, that cannot be met through normal
   procurement methods because the lack of these goods or services or
   construction would seriously threaten any of the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The health or safety of any person;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The preservation or protection of property;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The continuation of necessary governmental functions; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    The Authority’s compliance with legal requirements.

   5332.6. The General Manager, or designee may approve a non-competitive
   procurement on an emergency basis which does not otherwise comply with the
   requirements of the Regulations if the procurement is essential for:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Preventing or avoiding an imminent emergency; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Responding to, mitigating or resolving an existing emergency condition.

   5332.7. In case of an emergency procurement under this Section, a contractor
   may be given a verbal authorization by the Contracting Officer to proceed,
   provided that a written contract or modification is executed as soon
   thereafter as is reasonably practicable.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 613 (January 22, 1999)
   [EXPIRED]; as Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7349 (September 17, 1999);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 4484 (June 12, 2009); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 7545 (September 18, 2009).
