                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONFLICT OF INTEREST (§ 21-5306)

5306.1. No Authority employee, officer, board member or agent shall
   participate in or attempt to influence any procurement when the employee,
   officer, board member or agent knows or has reason to know:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The employee, officer, board member or agent, or any relative of an employee,
   officer, board member or agent has a financial interest pertaining to the
   procurement;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A business or organization in which the employee, officer, board member or
   agent, or any relative of an employee, officer, board member or agent has a
   financial interest pertaining to the procurement; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The employee, officer, board member or agent or any relative of an employee,
   officer, board member or agent has an agreement or arrangement for prospective
   employment with a business or organization involved with the procurement.

   5306.2. It is a breach of ethical standards for any employee to receive or
   attempt to realize personal gain or advantage, either directly or indirectly,
   as a result of their participation in any action related to any procurement.
   No employee, officer, board member or agent may solicit or accept, directly or
   indirectly, on his/her own behalf or on behalf of a relative, any benefit,
   such as a gift, gratuity, favor, compensation, offer of employment, or
   anything having more than a nominal monetary value from any person, or entity
   having or seeking to have a contractual, business, or financial relationship
   with the Authority.

   5306.3. In the event an Authority employee, officer or agent, other than the
   General Manager, is offered or receives any benefit in violation of any
   provision of         §§ 5304-5308 from any person or entity, the employee
   shall report the matter to the General Manager or designee who shall determine
   the disposition of the benefit. The failure to report such offer or benefit to
   the General Manager or designee is a breach of these ethical standards.

   5306.4. In the event the General Manager, a Board member other than the Board
   Chair, or an alternate member receives any offer or benefit in violation of
   any provision of §§ 5304-5308 from any person or entity, the Board member,
   alternate member or General Manager shall report the benefit to the Board
   Chair who shall determine the disposition of the matter or benefit. In the
   event that the Board Chair receives any offer or benefit in violation of any
   provision of §§ 5304-5308 from any person or entity, the Board Chair shall
   report the benefit to the Vice Chair who shall determine the disposition of
   the matter or benefit.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 613 (January 22, 1999)
   [EXPIRED]; as Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7349 (September 17, 1999);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 4484 (June 12, 2009).
