                                  DC REGULATIONS

TAXICAB COLORINGS AND MARKINGS (§ 31-503)

503.1. Uniform color scheme.  Effective October 1, 2013, each vehicle in the
   District intended for use as a taxicab shall comply with the uniform color
   scheme in
   
   	§ 503.3 if;
   
   
   
   (a)	It is entering service as a new vehicle; or
   
   
   
   (b)	For any reason it is repainted in whole or in part, or is required to be
   repainted in whole or in part by any provision of this title or by any other
   District of Columbia law or regulation; or
   
   
   
   (c)	It is a replacement vehicle, including a vehicle entering service
   according to the gradual removal schedule of § 609 of this title.

   503.2. A taxicab that fails to comply with this section shall not be operated.
    Each taxicab operated in violation of this section shall subject the owner
   and operator to the civil penalties set forth in this chapter, including
   impoundment of the vehicle.

   503.3. The uniform color scheme for District taxicabs is established as
   provided in this subsection.  Each vehicle shall:
   
   
   
   	(a)	Be painted red in color to match the D.C. Circulator: 3M Controltac
   Graphic Film color Geranium 180C-63;
   
   
   
   	(b)	Bear a vehicle model specific stripe decal on both sides that: aligns
   with the bottom of the taxicab tail light at the rear of the vehicle, is made
   of 3M Controltac Plus Film (or equivalent), and matches Pantone Warm Gray 2 in
   color;
   
   
   
   	(c)	Bear decal letters of the name of the taxicab company, association, or
   fleet name, or the name of the owner for an independently operated taxicab,
   and a customer service telephone number on both front side doors (driver and
   passenger). The decal letters shall be the color black, in Calibri font, using
   capital letters that are two and fifteen sixteenths inches (2-15/16″) in
   height measured from the X height and manufactured of 3M Controltac Plus Film
   (or equivalent);
   
   
   
   	(d)	Bear decal letters of the taxicab company, association, or fleet name and
   fleet vehicle number, if applicable, or the name of the owner and independent
   taxicab number, if applicable, which shall be on the rear of the body so as to
   be clearly visible from the rear, on either side of and in alignment with the
   center of the vehicle manufacturer placed logo. The decal letters shall be the
   color black, in Calibri font, using capital letters that are one and one half
   (1-1/2) inches in height measured from the X height and manufactured of 3M
   Controltac Plus Film (or equivalent);
   
   
   
   	(e)	Display a DCTC Certification Decal, of a size and shape determined by the
   Office, which shall be affixed in the lower left hand corner of the rear
   passenger window; and
   
   
   
   	(f)	If the owner has received express written approval from the Office, an
   insignia, logo, term, or symbol may be placed on the vehicle, consistent with
   the requirements of § 503.7, as follows —
   
   
   
   	(1)	If the owner is a taxicab company, or the vehicle is associated with a
   taxicab association or fleet, the insignia or logo of such company,
   association, or fleet may be centered on both rear passenger doors, which
   shall be no more than seventeen inches (17″) in width and shall be two
   inches (2″) from the closest gray edge/field; and
   
   
   
   	(2)	Based on specifications set forth in one or more Office orders, where the
   vehicle is an alternative fuel vehicle, a term or symbol commonly used in the
   motor vehicle or taxicab industry to mark such vehicle may be placed on the
   vehicle.

   503.4. Additional information about the specifications for the uniform color
   scheme shall be maintained on the Commission’s website.

   503.5. It shall be the responsibility of each taxicab company, association, or
   fleet to ensure that any taxicab bearing its name, insignia, or logo is on the
   insurance list filed with the Office for that company, association, or fleet.

   503.6. The operation of a taxicab bearing a name, insignia, or logo in
   violation of this section shall be presumptive evidence that the operator and
   the owner are in violation of § 816 (fraud).

   503.7. Review process for proposed display of insignia, logo, term, or symbol.
   
   
   
   	(a)	An owner interested in displaying an insignia, logo, term, or symbol on
   its vehicle pursuant to § 503.3(f) shall submit an application under oath, in
   a form acceptable to the Office, accompanied by the appropriate fee, and —
   
   
   
   		(1)	Either —
   
   
   
   			(A)	If the application seeks approval of a taxicab company, association, or
   fleet insignia or logo, pursuant to § 503.3(f)(1):  an electronic rendering
   of the design accurately depicting the insignia or logo and its proposed
   location(s) on the vehicle; or
   
   
   
   			(B)	If the application is for a term or symbol for an alternative fuel
   vehicle, pursuant to § 503.3(f)(2), then a website URL for a trade or
   industry association or vehicle manufacturer website where the term or symbol
   may be found and reflects that the term or symbol is commonly used in the
   motor vehicle or taxicab industry to mark such vehicle, and an electronic
   rendering accurately depicting the term or symbol and its proposed location(s)
   on the vehicle; and
   
   
   
   		(2)	Such additional information and documentation that the Office may
   require to evaluate the request.
   
   
   
   	(b)	The Office shall deny an application where the proposed insignia, logo,
   term or symbol would be offensive, in poor taste, confuse or mislead
   consumers, undermine the uniform color scheme, or violate any provision of
   this title or other applicable law.
   
   
   
   	(c)	The Office shall render its decision to grant or deny an application in
   writing within thirty (30) days, which, if denied, may be appealed to the
   Chairman, whose decision shall be a final, appealable order of the Office.
   
   
   
   	(d)	If the Office grants its approval, the owner shall complete placement of
   the insignia, logo, term, or symbol on all of its vehicles within sixty (60)
   days of the issuance of the approval.

   503.8. Prohibitions.
   
   
   
   (a) 	No paint, graphic, vehicle wrap or decal, paint color, design, insignia,
   logo, term, symbol, advertisement, signage, display, label, sticker, or
   lettering shall be placed on any taxicab unless it complies with this section
   or the owner has obtained the express written approval of the Office.
   
   
   
   (b)	There shall not be placed on or in any taxicab,  paint, graphic, vehicle
   wrap or decal, paint color, design, insignia, logo, term, symbol,
   advertisement, signage, display, label, sticker, lettering or other exterior
   object which has, tends to have, or may have the effect of confusing,
   misleading, or deceiving the public.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 3595, 3597 (June 1, 1990); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 4047 (June 25, 1993); by Final
   Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 2370 (April 29, 1994); by Final Rulemaking
   published at 41 DCR 6953 (October 21, 1994); and by Final Rulemaking published
   45 DCR 8866 (December 11, 1998); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at
   59 DCR 8549, 8554 (July 20, 2012); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at
   60 DCR 12387 (August 30, 2013).
