                                  DC REGULATIONS

FRAUD, MISREPRESENTATION, LARCENY, AND OTHER UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED (ยง
31-511)

511.1. No owner, agent, or employee of a taxicab company, association, or
   fleet, or his or her representative or affiliate, while performing duties and
   responsibilities for the taxicab company, association, or fleet, shall commit
   or attempt to commit, alone or in concert with another, any act of fraud,
   misrepresentation, or larceny.  Examples of fraud, larceny, or
   misrepresentation include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Falsification or counterfeiting of an official document;
   
   
   
   (b)	Knowingly accepting falsified, counterfeit, or duplicated official
   documents;
   
   
   
   (c)	Making a false, misleading, deceptive, or materially incomplete statement,
   written or oral, to the Commission or a Commission representative or on an
   application or in a communication to the Commission or Commission
   representative; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Knowingly concealing or misrepresenting the true ownership of a taxicab or
   a taxicab company, association, or fleet.

   511.2. An owner, agent, or employee of a taxicab company, association, or
   fleet or his or her representative or affiliate shall not willfully perform an
   act of omission or commission that is against the best interest of the public,
   even if the act is not specifically prohibited by these rules.

   511.3. An owner, agent, or employee of a taxicab company, association, or
   fleet or his or her representative or affiliate shall not use or permit
   another person to use an office of the company, association, or fleet for an
   unlawful purpose.

   511.4. An owner, agent, or employee of a taxicab company, association, or
   fleet or his or her representative or affiliate shall not conceal evidence of
   a crime connected with the company, association, or fleet.

   511.5. An owner, agent, or employee of a taxicab company, association, or
   fleet or his or her representative or affiliate shall report immediately to
   the Commission and the appropriate law enforcement authority any attempt to
   use any office of the company, association, or fleet for any unlawful purpose.

   511.6. An owner, agent, or employee of a taxicab company, association, or
   fleet or his or her representative or affiliate shall not file with the
   Commission a statement that he or she knows or reasonably should know to be
   false, misleading, deceptive, or materially incomplete.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 8549, 8559 (July 20, 2012).
