                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUBPOENAS (ยง 16-1411)

1411.1. Pursuant to ยง4(o), D.C. Law 5-162, the Board may issue a subpoena for
   the attendance of a witness and for the production of books, records,
   documents, and other evidence.

   1411.2. Any party may serve a subpoena upon any other party, witness or person
   holding relevant documents. The individual or entity served shall have five
   (5) business days from date of service of the subpoena to respond.

   1411.3. Witnesses other than those employed by the District of Columbia acting
   in their official capacity as an employee of the District Government, summoned
   to appear before the Board shall be entitled to the same fees as are paid
   witnesses for attendance before the Superior Court of the District of Columbia
   but the fees need not be paid the witnesses in advance of their appearing and
   testifying, or producing books, records, papers, documents, or other legal
   evidence before the Board.

   1411.4. The Board may require the party on whose behalf the subpoena is issued
   to pay the reasonable costs of service.

   1411.5. Any individual or entity upon whom a subpoena is served may seek to
   have the subpoena quashed or limited. The written motion shall state the
   ground or grounds on which it is based and shall be filed no later than five
   (5) days from service of the subpoena.

   1411.6. A subpoena may be quashed or limited on any of the following grounds:
   
   
   
   (a)	The subpoena is overbroad;
   
   
   
   (b)	The evidence sought through the subpoena is irrelevant to the case;
   
   
   
   (c)	The subpoena would violate a legally recognized privilege; or
   
   
   
   (d)	The lack of jurisdiction, improper service, or other procedural defect.

   1411.7. A subpoena may be served within the District of Columbia or outside of
   the District of Columbia if the location is within one hundred (100) miles of
   the location of the hearing, or where a statute permits.

   1411.8. A subpoena shall be served on an individual or entity using any of the
   following methods:
   
   
   
   (a)	By delivering the subpoena to the individual personally;
   
   
   
   (b)	By leaving the subpoena at his or her usual place of business or at his or
   her usual residence with a person over the age of sixteen (16) years who is
   employed or residing at that place;
   
   
   
   (c)	By registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, sent to the
   individual&#8217;s last known address; or
   
   
   
   (d)	By delivering or mailing through registered or certified mail with return
   receipt requested, the subpoena to an officer, managing or general agent or to
   any other person authorized to receive service of process for an entity.

   1411.9. Any individual at least eighteen (18) years of age and not a party to
   the claim may serve a subpoena.

   1411.10. The Board may apply to the proper court for an order requiring
   obedience, if a person refuses any of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	To respond to a subpoena;
   
   
   
   (b)	To take the oath or affirmation as a witness; or
   
   
   
   (c)	To obey any lawful order of an arbitrator;
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 2958, 2966 (May 16, 1986).
