                                  DC REGULATIONS

TAXIMETER BUSINESS &#8211; SEALS (ยง 31-1323)

1323.1. Installation of a taximeter shall include the affixing of security
   seals to the taximeter as required by the Commission. Only seals which have
   been authorized and approved by the Commission shall be used by a taximeter
   business. The security seals shall be installed in a manner prescribed by the
   Commission, and in such manner that the security seals self-destruct when the
   taximeter or sealed part of the vehicle is disassembled.

   1323.2. Each seal shall be numbered and the taximeter business shall keep a
   record of each seal used. Seals must be used in consecutive numerical order,
   and any seal not used must be accounted for. The record of seals shall be
   available for inspection by the Commission as set forth herein. The record
   shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The seal number;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number of the taximeter in which the seal was installed;
   
   
   
   (c)	The name and number of the taxicab in which the taximeter was installed;
   
   
   
   (d)	The date the seal was installed;
   
   
   
   (e)	The date and seal number of any seal removed;
   
   
   
   (f)	The reason for installing any new seal; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The wheel and tire size at the time of inspection and the recommended tire
   pressure.

   1323.3. No taximeter business shall install a seal on a taximeter without
   removing all seals installed by another meter shop, whether or not broken.

   1323.4. Each taximeter business shall maintain on its business premises either
   a fireproof safe secured to the floor of the establishment or a locked,
   secured room secured by an alarm connected to a centralized monitoring
   facility, for the storage of seals and taximeter repair records.

   1323.5. Each taximeter business shall maintain and file with the Commission a
   description of the procedures used by it to prevent the loss, theft,
   destruction or misuse of taximeter seals.

   1323.6. A taximeter business shall not install a meter or seal in a taxicab
   that it owns or with which it is affiliated.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 3831 (April 11, 2008).
