                                  DC REGULATIONS

TAXIMETER BUSINESS &#8211; SALE OF TAXIMETERS (ยง 31-1329)

1329.1. A taximeter business owner shall only sell and install taximeters for
   use in a District of Columbia licensed taxicab that have been approved by the
   Commission.

   1329.2. A taximeter business owner shall not sell a taximeter for use in a
   taxicab licensed by the Commission unless a valid vehicle license from the
   Commission is presented.

   1329.3. A taximeter business owner shall not sell a taximeter for use in a
   Commission licensed vehicle unless the installation, testing and certification
   of the taximeter/vehicle assembly is performed by the taximeter business
   licensee or an employee thereof.

   1329.4. A taximeter business owner shall report to the Commission, within
   seven (7) days, all sales, trades or exchanges of taximeters by the licensed
   taximeter business on a form prescribed by the Commission.

   1329.5. A taximeter business owner shall inform all purchasers in writing,
   before the sale takes place, of any and all restrictions imposed by the
   taximeter manufacturer and/or taximeter business licensee regarding the
   testing, repairs, calibration and installation of the taximeter.

   1329.6. A taximeter business owner shall remove, deface, or otherwise void the
   validity of the certification sticker upon receipt of a taximeter purchased,
   exchanged, or accepted in trade by the taximeter business licensee, and report
   such decertification to the Commission.

   1329.7. The certification sticker must conform to all specifications
   established by the Commission and bear the name of the Chairperson of the
   Commission.

   1329.8. All installations of taximeters in taxicabs license to operate in the
   District of Columbia must be in accordance with specifications which have been
   filed with and approved by the Commission.

   1329.9. No change in the method of installation shall be made unless the
   installation method has been filed with and approved by the Commission.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 3831 (April 11, 2008).
