                                  DC REGULATIONS

OPERATION OF PUBLIC VEHICLES FOR HIRE (§ 31-822)

822.1. No person shall be issued or allowed to renew a license for a public
   vehicle for hire vehicle identification (DCTC) card or operator identification
   (Face) card under D.C. Official Code §§ 47-2829(d) and (e) (2005 Repl.; 2011
   Supp.)) unless that person has paid, together with the cost of the license;
   any outstanding assessment ordered by the Commission pursuant to D.C. Official
   Code § 50-320 (2009 Repl.; 2011 Supp.); all fines imposed for notices of
   infractions issued for violations of Commission rules or District traffic or
   parking regulations involving the operation of a public vehicle for hire; and
   all other outstanding taxes, fines, fees, penalties, or interest owed to the
   District in excess of one hundred dollars ($100) pursuant to D.C. Official
   Code § 47-2862 (2005 Repl.; 2011 Supp.).  If the applicant has properly and
   timely filed an appeal of the assessment, taxes, fine, fees, penalties or
   interest and the appeal is still pending, the applicant shall be given
   temporary operating authority (a temporary license) pending disposition of the
   appeal.

   822.2. No person shall counterfeit, make, duplicate, obtain, purchase,
   possess, display, or present a counterfeit, false, or altered official
   government issued operator identification (Face) card; a counterfeit, false,
   or altered official government issued public vehicle for hire identification
   (DCTC) card; or a temporary license issued pursuant to § 822.1.  Penalties
   for a violation of this provision may include license suspension, revocation,
   or non-renewal, a fine as provided in § 825, or both.   However, an operator
   may make, and keep secured, a personal copy of his or her official government
   issued operator identification (Face) card or official government issued
   public vehicle for hire identification (DCTC) card in his or her personal
   files.  This personal copy may not be carried in the vehicle or presented or
   displayed as proof of licensure.

   822.3. No person shall drive or be in physical control of a taxicab unless
   they have in their possession a valid identification card issued to them under
   D.C. Official Code §47-2829(e) (2001) and a valid District of Columbia motor
   vehicle operator&#8217;s permit or, for non-District residents or persons
   exempt from obtaining a District motor vehicle operator&#8217;s permit, a
   valid motor vehicle operator&#8217;s permit issued by a state that is a party
   to the Driver License Compact Act, D.C. Official Code § 50-1001 et seq.
   (2001).

   822.4. It shall be the duty of the owner of a taxicab and their agent or
   lessee to prevent any person from driving a taxicab unless the person has in
   their possession a valid identification card issued to him or her and a valid
   District of Columbia motor vehicle operator&#8217;s permit or, for
   non-District residents or persons exempt from obtaining a District motor
   vehicle operator&#8217;s permit, a valid motor vehicle operator&#8217;s permit
   issued by a state that is a party to the Driver License Compact Act.

   822.5. The fact that any unlicensed person is driving a taxicab shall be prima
   facie evidence that they are doing so with the permission of the owner, agent
   or lessee.

   822.6. In the event an operator&#8217;s identification card is suspended or
   revoked subsequent to receiving authority from the owner, agent or lessee to
   operate a taxicab, the owner, agent or lessee shall be held to have knowledge
   of the fact if notice of the revocation or suspension shall have been
   published or given to him or her, by the Commission or another agency of
   government.

   822.7. The Office of Taxicabs shall, by registered mail and within five (5)
   business days of a final decision of suspension, revocation, or non-renewal of
   a taxicab operator identification card, notify the association, corporation,
   organization, or person that maintains a taxicab lease or taxicab association
   or company membership agreement with the operator that the operator&#8217;s
   privilege to operate a taxicab in the District of Columbia has been suspended,
   revoked, or not renewed.

   822.8. The association, corporation, organization or person that maintains a
   lease with the operator shall, upon receipt of the notice required by §
   822.6, terminate any lease agreement, written or otherwise, with the operator,
   and shall take reasonable steps to assure the return to the owner of any
   vehicle leased to the operator.

   822.9. Every person holding an identification card shall maintain at the
   Office of Taxicabs their correct name, residence address and telephone number,
   and if affiliated with a company or association, the association, company,
   organization or owner for which they drive. In the event of any change in this
   information, the licensee shall inform the Office of the change within five
   (5) business days. The licensee may elect to provide this information by
   certified mail with return receipt requested or by hand delivery to the
   Office. If the licensee delivers the information by hand delivery, the Office
   will provide proof of filing to the licensee. Failure to do so will result in
   a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per offense. Any fine imposed pursuant
   to this section shall be collected at the time of the licensee&#8217;s renewal
   period.

   822.10. The operation of taxicabs shall be conducted in accordance with the
   laws of the District and with due regard for the safety, comfort and
   convenience of passengers, for the safe and careful transportation of
   property, and for the safety of the general public. All reasonable efforts
   shall be made to promote safety at all times and under all conditions.

   822.11. No person shall drive a taxicab for hire when the operator does any of
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is not clean in dress or in person;
   
   
   
   (b)	Is not fully attired or is attired in such a manner as to give offense to
   the public; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Wears shorts, &#8220;T&#8221; shirts as an outer garment, sweat pants,
   sweat shirts, sweatsuits, or sandals.

   822.12. No person shall drive or be in physical control of any taxicab for the
   purpose of carrying passengers or parcels for a period in excess of twelve
   (12) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period, unless the driving time is
   broken by a period of eight (8) continuous hours of rest. No taxicab shall be
   operated during a twenty-four (24) hour period for more than sixteen (16)
   hours.

   822.13. No person shall drive a taxicab for any period of time which, when
   added to the period of time they have driven any vehicle other than a taxicab,
   totals more than twelve (12) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period, unless
   the driving time is broken by a period of eight (8) continuous hours of rest.

   822.14. No owner of a taxicab or their agent shall knowingly permit any
   taxicab owned by him or her to be driven in violation of §§ 822.11 or
   822.12.

   822.15. No taxicab shall be driven when it is so loaded or when there is in
   the front seat such number of persons as to obstruct the view of the driver to
   the front or sides or to interfere with his or her control over the taxicab.
   No taxicab shall carry more adult passengers than the designed capacity of the
   vehicle, and no more children than can be seated comfortably on the seats.

   822.16. Taxicab operators shall travel the most direct and reasonable route
   between the origin and destination of each trip, as reasonably determined by
   the operator.  To the extent feasible, taxicab operators shall utilize a
   global positioning system (“GPS”) device or a smart phone containing a GPS
   function to determine the most direct and reasonable route.  The operator, if
   at all possible or in instances where the operator is unsure of the route,
   shall accept direction from the passenger to travel a certain route to the
   destination.

   822.17. No taxicab operator shall stop to load or unload passengers on the
   traffic side of the street, while occupying any intersection or crosswalk, or
   in such a manner as to unduly interfere with the orderly flow of traffic. All
   taxicab drivers shall pull as close to the curb or edge of the roadway as
   possible to take on or discharge passengers.

   822.18. No taxicab operator shall stop or park a taxicab adjacent to any curb
   except as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	While actually taking on or discharging passengers;
   
   
   
   (b)	When occupying a designated public vehicle stand for taxicabs;
   
   
   
   (c)	When answering a call or delivering a parcel; or
   
   
   
   (d)	When not holding his or her vehicle for hire, in which event the
   identification card shall be removed from the taxicab and the driver shall be
   away from the taxicab on business of his or her own.

   822.19. Each taxicab in service shall be kept clean both inside and out,
   including the trunk. The inside shall be kept in a sanitary condition and
   shall be swept and dusted thoroughly. The exterior shall be thoroughly
   cleaned.

   822.20. Each operator of a taxicab shall, upon concluding taxicab operations
   for the day, make a diligent search of all parts of the taxicab for property
   left therein. The operator shall promptly turn in all property of any value to
   any police precinct station.

   822.21. At the request of the passenger, a taxicab operator shall turn off or
   turn down the sound on a radio, other than the radio used for communications
   with a dispatcher.

   822.22. Nothing shall be transported in any taxicab that will cause the
   interior of the vehicle to become soiled or offensive to passengers because of
   odor or appearance.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 3595, 3623 (June 1, 1990); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 5958 (August 19, 1994); and
   Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 7686 (December 19, 1997); as amended by
   Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 11290 (December 30, 2005); as amended by
   Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 9970, 9982 (August 17, 2012).
