                                  DC REGULATIONS

STANDARDS OF CONDUCT; UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED (§ 31-816)

816.1. No operator of a public vehicle for hire, while performing duties and
   responsibilities as a licensed operator, shall commit or attempt to commit,
   alone or in concert with another, an act of fraud, misrepresentation, or
   larceny.

   816.2. Examples of fraud, misrepresentation, or larceny include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Charging a fare other than the fare set by the Commission;
   
   
   
   (b)	Requesting, or participating in, adjustment of the tire size, driving
   axle, pinion gear, transducer, wiring, or other equipment, for the purpose of
   generating an inaccurate signal of time or distance into the taximeter;
   
   
   
   (c)	Receiving, purchasing, or using a device manufactured, sold, or installed,
   which is either designed to or does generate a false or inaccurate signal into
   the taximeter or which is not authorized by Title 31; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Entering fake or false entries into the manifest or any document or
   related record.

   816.3. No public vehicle for hire operator shall use or permit any other
   person to use the vehicle for any unlawful purpose.

   816.4. No public vehicle for hire operator shall conceal any evidence of a
   crime connected with the taxicab or public vehicle for hire.

   816.5. A public vehicle for hire operator shall report immediately to the
   Commission, a hack inspector, or law enforcement personnel any attempt by a
   person to use a public vehicle for hire to commit a crime.

   816.6. No public vehicle for hire operator or any person acting on his or her
   behalf shall file with the Commission any statement, including but not limited
   to statements required to be filed pursuant to these rules, which the operator
   knows or reasonably should know to be false, misleading, deceptive, or
   materially incomplete.

   816.7. A public vehicle for hire operator or a person acting on the
   operator’s behalf shall notify the Commission in writing of his or her
   arrest for a crime within five (5) days of such arrest and shall deliver or
   cause to be delivered to the Commission a certified copy of the disposition of
   any arrest issued by the clerk of the court within five (5) days after the
   disposition.

   816.8. A public vehicle for hire operator, or a person acting on the
   operator’s behalf, shall notify the Commission in writing of any material
   change in the information contained in the owner’s latest license
   application or renewal within five (5) days after the material change occurs
   or becomes known to the operator.

   816.9. A public vehicle for hire operator, or a person acting on the
   operator’s behalf, shall notify the Commission in writing within twenty-four
   (24) hours after a suspension or revocation of a public vehicle for hire
   license granted to the licensee, or a person acting on the licensee’s
   behalf, by an agency of the District of Columbia, Maryland, Virginia, the
   federal government, or by a regional licensing authority.

   816.10. No public vehicle for hire operator, or a person acting on the
   operator’s behalf, shall actively or passively offer or give a gift,
   gratuity, or thing of value to an employee, representative, or member of the
   Commission, the District of Columbia or federal governments, or regional
   licensing authority.   This shall include any overt or covert act, including
   the leaving of money or other tangible items of value within the vehicle that
   remain in plain view of the government or regional authority employee, member
   or representative, which shall create a rebuttable presumption that the act
   was intentional.

   816.11. A public vehicle for hire operator, or a person acting on the
   operator’s behalf, during the scope of  the operator’s or person’s
   employment with a company or association shall immediately report to the
   Commission and the Inspector General of the District of Columbia or a law
   enforcement officer a request or demand for a gift, gratuity, or thing of
   value to the operator or person acting on his or her behalf by an employee,
   representative, or member of the Commission, District of Columbia or federal
   government, or a regional licensing authority.

   816.12. No public vehicle for hire operator, or a person acting on the
   operator’s behalf, shall accept a gift, gratuity, or thing of value, from an
   individual or other person actually or purportedly acting on behalf of an
   owner or operator for the purpose of committing a violation of these rules.

   816.13. A public vehicle for hire operator, or a person acting on the
   operator’s behalf, shall notify the Commission in writing within twenty-four
   (24) hours after any offer of a gift, gratuity, or thing of value prohibited
   by District laws, rules, and regulations, including Title 31.

   816.14. No public vehicle for hire operator, or a person acting on the
   operator’s behalf, shall perform any willful act which endangers or is
   against the best interest, health, or safety of the passenger or public, even
   if not specifically prohibited by Title 31 or other District laws, rules, and
   regulations. Examples include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Aggressive driving;
   
   
   
   
   
   Offensive or profane language or gestures;
   
   
   
   
   
   Tailgating;
   
   
   
   
   
   Demanding pre-payment or a tip from passenger;
   
   
   
   
   
   Illegal driving maneuvers;
   
   
   
   
   
   Impeding passenger exit from the vehicle;
   
   
   
   
   
   Withholding a passenger’s luggage;
   
   
   
   
   
   Spitting on a passenger or pedestrian; or
   
   
   
   
   
   Demanding that a passenger leave the vehicle in an unsafe manner or location.

   816.15. For each violation of this section a public vehicle for hire operator,
   or a person acting on the operator’s behalf, shall be subject to:
   
   
   
   (a)	The fines set forth in § 825 of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Impoundment of the vehicle associated with the violation pursuant to the
   Taxicab and Passenger Vehicle for Hire Impoundment Act of 1992, effective
   March 16, 1993 (D.C. Law 9-199; D.C. Official Code § 50-331 (2009 Repl.; 2011
   Supp.));
   
   
   
   (c)	License suspension, revocation, or non-renewal; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A combination of the sanctions listed in this subsection.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 9970, 9976 (August 17, 2012).
