                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECIPROCITY WITH SURROUNDING JURISDICTIONS (§ 31-828)

828.1. Public vehicle for hire operators and vehicles properly licensed in
   jurisdictions outside of the District of Columbia, including but not limited
   to Arlington County, Fairfax County, or the City of Alexandria in Virginia or
   Montgomery County and Prince George’s County in Maryland may pick up
   passengers in the District for transport directly to their respective
   jurisdiction of licensure only under the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	Public vehicles for hire licensed outside of the District of Columbia will
   be permitted to enter the District of Columbia to pick up passengers on a
   prearranged basis. Public vehicles for hire shall pick up passengers on a
   prearranged basis only. Street hails and the use of taxicab stands is strictly
   prohibited;
   
   (b)	Public vehicles for hire licensed outside of the District of Columbia and
   entering the District of Columbia for the purpose of discharging passengers
   may, at the destination of the discharged passenger(s), pick up and directly
   transport passengers to the jurisdiction where such taxicabs are licensed. 
   Street hails and the use of taxicab stands is strictly prohibited;
   
   
   
   (c)	Public vehicles for hire licensed outside of the District of Columbia and
   entering the District of Columbia for the purpose of discharging passengers
   are not permitted to transport passengers within the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (d)	Public vehicles for hire licensed outside of the District of Columbia and
   entering the District of Columbia for the discharge of passengers shall return
   immediately and directly to their respective jurisdiction of licensure without
   cruising, parking, loitering, or soliciting passengers in the District; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Dispatchers (including electronic, internet and other computer-based
   applications and services) shall only dispatch an operator of a public vehicle
   for hire licensed outside of the District of Columbia to pick up in the
   District of Columbia while the driver is in his or her licensing jurisdiction.
   The dispatching of a public vehicle for hire unlicensed in the District, while
   in the District to another District location is strictly prohibited.

   828.2. A public vehicle for hire vehicle owner and operator shall ensure that
   a manifest entry of each trip authorized by § 828.1 is entered prior to the
   start of the trip in a log carried in the vehicle. The manifest entry of each
   trip shall be written legibly in ink, or maintained in an electronic device
   which can print out a copy when requested, and include the following
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The passenger’s name and address of pick-up;
   
   
   
   (b)	The time of scheduled pick-up of passenger;
   
   
   
   (c)	The destination of the passenger;
   
   
   
   (d)	The time of completion of the trip; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The amount of the fare.

   828.3. For prearranged and dispatched trips the information required by §
   828.2(a) through (c) shall be recorded in the manifest prior to the public
   vehicle for hire entering the District.

   828.4. The manifest required by § 828.2 shall be kept in the vehicle during
   trips and shall be subject to inspection by any Hack Inspector, law
   enforcement official, or other person authorized by the Commission. Failure to
   present such a manifest maintained in the manner prescribed by § 828.2 when
   requested by a Hack Inspector, law enforcement official, or other person
   authorized by the Commission shall be presumptive evidence of unlicensed
   operation in violation of the Commission&#8217;s rules, including failure to
   obey, unlicensed operator (non-resident), and unlicensed vehicle
   (non-resident).

   828.5. The manifest required by § 828.2 shall be maintained and available for
   a period of two (2) years. The manifest shall be provided to the Commission
   upon request and to any Hack Inspector, law enforcement official, or other
   person authorized by the Commission.

   828.6. A public vehicle for hire owner is responsible for each driver who
   operates his or her vehicle as his or her agent and acknowledges that his or
   her driver may accept service of notices of infractions or summonses from a
   Hack Inspector, law enforcement official, or other person authorized by the
   Commission.  Such acceptance shall accomplish service of process to the
   vehicle owner.

   828.7. A public vehicle for hire not properly licensed to operate in the
   District or operated in noncompliance with this section may be booted,
   impounded, and towed.

   828.8. A public vehicle for hire owner or operator or any unlicensed person
   who violates a provision of this section is subject to fine and penalty for
   unlicensed operator (non-resident) and unlicensed vehicle (non-resident) and
   is subject to the fine and penalty set forth in § 825, impoundment of the
   vehicle or, upon conviction, imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days.

   828.9. For the purposes of this section, the term:
   
   
   
   (a)	“Prearranged” means the passenger has requested the public vehicle for
   hire operator for transport or has asked an on-duty employee of a
   District-licensed hotel operator to make such a request.
   
   
   
   (b)	“Soliciting” means an effort made to obtain a passenger or passengers
   in a manner that is in violation of § 819.1 and 819.2.
   
   
   
   (c)	“Loitering” also includes the failure of a driver, while in service,
   to proceed directly to the prearranged destination to service a trip permitted
   by this section or return directly to his or her licensing jurisdiction.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 3813 (June 12, 1998); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 9970, 9992 (August 17, 2012).
