                                  DC REGULATIONS

MANIFEST RECORD (ยง 31-823)

823.1. Every operator of a public vehicle for hire shall maintain a daily log
   record (manifest) of all trips made by the vehicle while under his or her
   control.  A manifest shall be on a form approved by the Commission or, when
   applicable, in an electronic form provided by the Taxi Smart Meter System that
   contains, at a minimum, all information required by ยง823.2.  An electronic
   manifest must be capable of providing a printed record immediately upon
   request by a Hack Inspector, law enforcement personnel, or other Commission
   personnel.

   823.2. The manifest shall be the same form as Appendix 8-3 and should contain,
   but not be limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The date, operator&#8217;s identification card number, taxicab company,
   vehicle number, and license plate number;
   
   
   
   (b)	The interstate mileage at the beginning and ending of an interstate trip;
   
   
   
   (c)	The time and place of origin and time and place of destination of each
   trip;
   
   
   
   (d)	The number of passengers and fare charged for each trip; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The time and interstate mileage at the end of the workday.

   823.3. A complete and accurate record of all information required on the
   manifest shall be kept, and each trip record shall be logged immediately
   following completion of the trip.

   823.4. The manifest shall be kept on file and available for a period of two
   (2) years. The manifest shall be provided to the Commission upon demand and to
   any authorized agency of the District of Columbia or the United States
   Government.

   823.5. The daily manifest shall not be altered in any manner.  Evidence of
   alternation may include, but is not limited to, changing or striking out any
   of the information required by ยง 823.2, attempting to manipulate the manifest
   provided by the Taxi Smart Meter System or completing the manifest with false
   information after it has been requested by a Hack Inspector, law enforcement
   personnel, or other Commission personnel.   An altered manifest represents a
   failure to properly complete and maintain a manifest and any corresponding
   violation represented by the actual alteration, such as a failure to charge
   proper fare or a failure to haul when on duty, for which fines are provided in
   this chapter. However, when applicable a correction of a written, rather than
   an electronic, manifest by an operator is permitted when a mistake or error is
   struck out, initialed, and dated by the operator.

   823.6. Manifests are official records of all trips made by a public vehicle
   for hire operator and the consumers served and are to be maintained securely
   for presentation to the Commission upon request.  The manifest requirement
   applies also to out-of-state public vehicles for hire picking up passengers in
   the District of Columbia pursuant to ยง 828.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 3595, 3626 (June 1, 1990); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 3477 (May 2, 2003); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 9970, 9983 (August 17, 2012).
