                                  DC REGULATIONS

THREATENING, HARASSING, OR ABUSIVE CONDUCT PROHIBITED (§ 31-817)

817.1. No public vehicle for hire operator, or a person acting on the
   operator’s behalf, shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Threaten, harass, or abuse a passenger, a Commission representative, civil
   or law enforcement personnel, government employee, another operator, or other
   person; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Use, threaten, or attempt to use physical force against a passenger, a
   Commission representative, civil or law enforcement personnel, government
   employee, or another operator or other person.

   817.2. A public vehicle for hire operator, or a person acting on the
   operator’s behalf, shall at all times cooperate with civil or law
   enforcement officers, including Hack Inspectors and other representatives of
   the Commission.

   817.3. A public vehicle for hire operator, or a person acting on the
   operator’s behalf, shall answer and comply as directed with all questions,
   communications, notices, directives, and summonses from the Commission or its
   representatives (including Hack Inspectors) and all other law enforcement
   personnel.

   817.4. No public vehicle for hire operator shall fail or refuse to obey an
   order or directive of Commission personnel (including Hack Inspectors) and
   local or federal law enforcement personnel.

   817.5. A taxicab or public vehicle for hire operator shall produce his or her
   original Commission license and other documents whenever directed by the
   Commission or civil or law enforcement personnel.  A violation of this section
   shall represent a failure to obey as set forth in § 817.3.

   817.6. For each violation of this section, a public vehicle for hire operator
   or a person acting on the operator’s behalf shall be subject to:
   
   
   
   (a)	The fines set forth in § 825 of this chapter, or if a specific fine or
   penalty is not listed in this chapter, a fine of one hundred dollars ($100);
   
   (b)	Impoundment of the vehicle associated with the violation pursuant to the
   Taxicab and Passenger Vehicle for Hire Impoundment Act of 1992, effective
   March 16, 1993 (D.C. Law 9-199; D.C. Official Code § 50-331 (2009 Repl.; 2011
   Supp.));
   
   (c)	License suspension, revocation, or non-renewal;
   
   (d)	Remedial action to assure the safety of the public as a condition of
   re-instatement of a license after suspension or revocation, including but not
   limited to:
   
   	(1)	Attending an anger management course;
   
   	(2)	Cultural sensitivity training; or
   
   	(3)	Re-taking the operator training course; or
   
   (e)	Any combination of the sanctions listed in this subsection.

   817.7. In the sole discretion of the Commission, a public vehicle for hire
   operator subject to suspension or revocation for a violation of this section
   may be offered the opportunity to successfully complete a course of remedial
   action approved by the Commission in lieu of license revocation or suspension.

   817.8. The cost of any course of remedial action required pursuant to § 817.6
   or 817.7 shall be borne by the licensee.

   817.9. A decision of the Commission to refuse an offer of remedial action in
   lieu of license revocation or suspension, or a determination by the Commission
   that an offered course of remedial action was not successfully completed, is
   not subject to appeal or review.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 9970, 9979 (August 17, 2012).
