                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (ยง 1-801)

801.1. When business requirements necessitate employees to travel or incur
   business related expenses, it shall be the responsibility of the duly
   authorized individual approving the expense to do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Assure that each trip or expense is clearly required for the benefit of
   the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	Limit the number of participants to the minimum required to accomplish the
   purpose; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Select the best alternative providing the least cost consistent with the
   purpose and the most efficient use of manpower and dollars.

   801.2. Except as otherwise provided by law, all travel shall be either
   authorized or approved by the head of the agency or by an official to whom
   that authority has been delegated.

   801.3. An authorization shall be issued prior to the incurrence of expenses
   and shall be as specific as possible in the circumstances or to the travel to
   be performed. Requests for exemptions shall be approved by the agency director
   or his or her designee.

   801.4. An employee traveling on official business shall exercise the same care
   in incurring expenses that a prudent person would exercise if traveling on
   personal business.

   801.5. Travel expenses for which reimbursement is sought shall be confined to
   expenses that are essential to the transaction of official business. Excess
   costs, e.g., expenses incurred as a result of circuitous routes, unnecessary
   or unjustified delays or luxury accommodations and services, or any other
   expenses that are unnecessary or unjustified in the performance of official
   business, shall not be reimbursable. The traveler shall be responsible for
   such costs.

   801.6. A claim against the government shall be forfeited if the claimant
   attempts to defraud the government in connection therewith, D.C. Code ยง
   22-3821 (1996 Repl.). In addition, there are criminal provisions under which
   severe penalties may be imposed on a traveler who presents a false, fictitious
   or fraudulent claim against the Government.

   801.7. Each claim for reimbursement of travel expenses shall be submitted on
   an authorized reimbursement form and shall be itemized and stated in
   accordance with the procedures of this chapter. All claims for reimbursement
   shall be submitted to the authorized official within seven (7) calendar days
   after the traveler returns to his or her official duty station.

   801.8. Except as otherwise indicated in this chapter, each claim for
   reimbursement of expenses of more than ten dollars ($10) shall be accompanied
   by original receipts. Items not supported by valid receipts shall be deducted
   from expense reports received for payment.

   801.9. It shall be the responsibility of the requestor to ensure that all
   documents are properly prepared, approved and submitted within the time limits
   set forth in this section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 1337-38 (March 8, 1985), as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 7296 (November 21, 1986).
