                                  DC REGULATIONS

PERFORMANCE AND PAYMENT SECURITY (ยง 27-2703)

2703.1. The contracting officer shall require a contractor to furnish
   performance and payment bonds or other security on any construction contract
   when the District&#8217;s independent estimate of the cost of the contract
   exceeds one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), in accordance with the
   provisions of this section.

   2703.2. The contracting officer may require a contractor to furnish a payment
   or performance bond or other security for any construction or non-construction
   contract, regardless of amount, when the contracting officer determines that
   the security is necessary or advisable to protect the interests of the
   District. The security shall be furnished in accordance with the provisions of
   this section.

   2703.3. The amount of the performance security shall be one hundred percent
   (100%) of the original contract price, unless the contracting officer
   determines that a lesser amount or percentage would be adequate for the
   protection of the District. The contracting officer shall state the amount or
   percentage in the solicitation.

   2703.4. The contracting officer shall require additional performance security
   when a contract price is increased. The increase in performance security shall
   equal one hundred percent (100%) of the increase in the contract price, unless
   the contracting officer determines that a lesser amount or percentage is
   adequate for the protection of the District.

   2703.5. The contracting officer may require additional performance security by
   directing a contractor to increase the original sum of the existing security
   or to obtain an additional security.

   2703.6. The payment security shall be in an amount of not less than fifty
   percent (50%) of the total amount of the contract price.

   2703.7. When a contract price is increased, the District may require
   additional payment security in an amount adequate to protect suppliers of
   labor and material. However, in no event shall the amount of payment security
   fall below fifty percent (50%) of the increased contract price.

   2703.8. When performance or payment security is required, the solicitation
   shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement that security is required;
   
   
   
   (b)	The amount of the security expressed as a fixed sum or percentage of the
   contract price; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The deadline for submitting acceptable security.

   2703.9. In construction contracts, the contractor shall furnish all
   performance and payment bonds (or other securities) by the deadline for
   submitting bonds (or other securities) as stated in the solicitation. The
   bonds (or other securities) must be submitted before a notice to proceed is
   issued.

   2703.10. No performance security or payment security shall be required after
   the contract has been executed if it was not specifically required in the
   contract, except when determined necessary by the contracting officer for a
   contract modification.

   2703.11. If the contracting officer uses a letter contract to allow the
   contractor to proceed with work before execution of the definitive contract,
   the letter contract shall contain a clause, approved by the Director, that no
   payments shall be made under the letter contract until the required payment
   and performance securities have been received.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1599 (February 26, 1988).
