                                  DC REGULATIONS

INSURANCE (ยง 27-2710)

2710.1. The District shall require each contractor to obtain insurance, by
   purchase, for the risks to which the contractor is exposed, except when the
   contract specifically relieves the contractor of liability for loss of or
   damage to District property.

   2710.2. The contracting officer shall have the right to disapprove the
   purchase of any insurance coverage not in the best interests of the District.

   2710.3. Insurance shall be mandatory when commingling of property, the type of
   operation, circumstances of ownership, or conditions of the contract make it
   necessary for the protection of the District.

   2710.4. When the District requires a contractor to provide insurance coverage,
   the policies shall contain an endorsement that any cancellation or material
   change in the coverage or terms and conditions of the coverage shall not be
   effective unless the insurer or the contractor gives prior written notice of
   the cancellation or change to the District in the manner required by the
   contract or the contracting officer.

   2710.5. When the District requires or approves insurance to cover loss of or
   damage to District property, it may be provided by specific insurance policies
   or by inclusion of the risks in the contractor&#8217;s existing policies. The
   policies shall disclose the District&#8217;s interests in the property.

   2710.6. The Director may establish risk-pooling arrangements. These
   arrangements shall be designed to use the services of the insurance industry
   for safety engineering and the handling of claims at minimum cost to the
   District. The agency responsible shall appoint a single point of contact for
   each arrangement.

   2710.7. The contracting officer may specify insurance requirements under
   fixed-price contracts, as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	When the contractor is engaged principally in District work;
   
   
   
   (b)	When the contractor has a separate operation engaged principally in
   District work;
   
   
   
   (c)	When the District elects to assume risks for which the contractor
   ordinarily would obtain commercial insurance; or
   
   
   
   (d)	In other circumstances when insurance coverage is in the best interests of
   the District.

   2710.8. Employee group insurance plans shall not be reimbursable under
   cost-reimbursement type contracts unless the plans have first been approved by
   the contracting officer and are otherwise deemed reimbursable under the terms
   of the contract. Whenever an approved plan is materially changed during the
   course of the contract, the plan shall be resubmitted for approval, and no
   costs shall be reimbursable unless approval of the revised plan has first been
   obtained.

   2710.9. Group insurance plans under ยง2710.8 shall provide for the District to
   share in any premium refunds or credits paid or otherwise allowed to the
   contractor. In determining the extent of the District&#8217;s share in any
   premium refunds or credits, any special reserves and other refunds to which
   the contractor may be entitled in the future shall be taken into account.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1603 (February 26, 1988).
