                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (ยง 27-2700)

2700.1. In addition to the requirements for bonds and other security under the
   provisions of Title V of the D.C. Procurement Practices Act of 1985 (the
   &#8220;Act&#8221;), D.C. Law 6-85, D.C. Code ยง 1-1185 (1981), the Director or
   any contracting officer may require any of the following types of security for
   any solicitation or contract subject to the provisions of the Act and this
   title, other that a small purchase under chapter 18, regardless of the
   estimated amount of the contract:
   
   
   
   (a)	Bid bonds;
   
   
   
   (b)	Other bid or proposal security;
   
   
   
   (c)	Construction performance and payment bonds; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Performance or payment bonds or other security on non-construction
   contracts.

   2700.2. The contracting officer shall determine whether security of any type
   would be in the best interests of the District in all contracts other than
   small purchases. In non-construction contracts, the contracting officer shall
   consider the following factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	Whether District property or funds are to be provided to the contractor
   for use in performing the contract or as partial compensation (such as in
   retention of salvaged material);
   
   
   
   (b)	When a contractor sells assets to or merges with another business entity,
   whether the District (after recognizing the other entity as the successor in
   interest) needs assurance that it is financially capable;
   
   
   
   (c)	Whether substantial progress payments are to be made before delivery of
   end item starts;
   
   
   
   (d)	Whether the contract is for dismantling, demolition, or removal of
   improvements; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Any other factors which might favor the use of security to protect the
   best interests of the District.

   2700.3. A payment security shall be required only when a performance security
   is required and the use of the payment security is in the best interests of
   the District, unless the contracting officer determines in writing that either
   type of security would, by itself, protect the best interests of the District.

   2700.4. When a security is required by the contracting officer under the Act
   or this chapter, the contracting officer may accept any of the following types
   of security:
   
   
   
   (a)	A bond provided by a surety in accordance with ยง2708;
   
   
   
   (b)	A certified check or irrevocable letter of credit issued by an insured
   financial institution in the equivalent amount of the security: or
   
   
   
   (c)	United States government securities that are assigned to the District
   which pledge the full faith and credit of the United States.

   2700.5. The contracting officer shall determine a contractor&#8217;s
   responsibility even though security has been or can be obtained.

   2700.6. A solicitation shall not bar bidders or offerors from using any of the
   types of surety or security permitted by this chapter, unless otherwise
   prohibited by law or regulation.

   2700.7. When required by federal law or regulation or as a condition of
   federal assistance, the contracting officer shall require security, and the
   solicitation shall state the requirement.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: Unless otherwise noted, the authority for this chapter is the
   District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 1985, D.C. Law 6-85, as
   amended, D.C. Code ยง1-1181.1 et seq. (1981).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1596 (February 26, 1988).
