                                  DC REGULATIONS

SURETY BONDS AND OTHER SECURITY (ยง 27-2707)

2707.1. A new surety bond covering all or part of the obligation on a security
   previously approved may be substituted for the original security, if approved
   by the contracting officer.

   2707.2. When a new surety bond is approved, the contracting officer shall
   notify the principal and surety on the original bond of the effective date of
   the new bond.

   2707.3. In addition to the requirements of ยง505(b) of the Act, D.C. Code
   ยง1-1185.2(b) (1981), when a payment security has been provided, the
   contracting officer shall, upon request, furnish the name and address of the
   surety or sureties to any subcontractor or supplier who has furnished or been
   requested to furnish labor or material for a contract. In addition, general
   information concerning the work progress, payments, and the estimated
   percentage of completion may be furnished to persons who have provided labor
   or material and have not been paid.

   2707.4. During contract performance of contracts requiring payment and
   performance security, agencies shall not withhold payments that are due to
   contractors or assignees because subcontractors or suppliers have not been
   paid.

   2707.5. If, after completion of the work of a contract requiring payment and
   performance security, the District receives written notice from the surety
   regarding the contractor&#8217;s failure to meet its obligation to its
   subcontractors or suppliers, the contracting officer shall withhold final
   payment. However, the surety shall agree to hold the District harmless from
   any liability resulting from withholding the final payment. The contracting
   officer shall authorize final payment upon agreement between the contractor
   and surety or upon a judicial or other binding determination of the rights of
   the parties.

   2707.6. If the amount of security exceeds the surety&#8217;s underwriting
   limit, as established by the U.S. Department of the Treasury or a list
   established by the District, the security shall be acceptable only if:
   
   
   
   (a)	The amount that exceeds the specified limit is coinsured or reinsured; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The amount of coinsurance or reinsurance does not exceed the underwriting
   limit of each coinsurer or reinsurer.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1601 (February 26, 1988).
