                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 7-1109)

1109.1. The definitions contained within the act (D.C. Code ยง 36-401 et seq.
   (1988)) shall apply to this Chapter. In addition, the following terms shall
   have the meaning ascribed:
   
   
   
   Apprenticeable Occupation &#8211; a skilled occupation which possesses all of
   the following characteristics:
   
   
   
   (a)	The occupation is customarily learned in a practical way through both
   training and work experience obtained on-the-job
   
   
   
   (b)	The occupation is clearly identified and commonly recognized throughout an
   industry.
   
   
   
   (c)	The occupation involves manual, mechanical, or technical skills and
   knowledge which require a minimum of two thousand (2,000) hours per year of
   on-the-job work experience not including the time spent in related
   instruction.
   
   
   
   (d)	The occupation requires instruction to supplement on-the-job training.
   
   
   
   Apprentice &#8211; a person at least 16 years of age who has entered into an
   apprenticeship agreement with an employer, an association of employers, or an
   organization of employees, which provides for reasonably continuous employment
   for the person and for participation in an approved apprenticeship program.
   
   
   
   Apprenticeship Agreement &#8211; a written agreement between an apprentice and
   either the apprentice&#8217;s employer, or an apprenticeship committee acting
   as agent for employers, which agreement contains the terms and conditions of
   the employment and training of the apprentice and must be registered with the
   Director.
   
   
   
   Apprenticeship Council &#8211; the District of Columbia State Apprenticeship
   Council.
   
   
   
   Apprenticeship Program &#8211; a program registered with the Apprenticeship
   Council, evidenced by a Certificate of Registration or other appropriate
   documents as meeting the apprenticeship standards of the Apprenticeship
   Council.
   
   
   
   Cancellation &#8211; the termination of an apprenticeship agreement at the
   request of either the sponsor or the apprentice.
   
   
   
   Certification &#8211; the written approval by the District of Columbia
   Apprenticeship Council of a set of apprenticeship standards or of an
   individual for employment as an apprentice in an apprenticeship program.
   
   
   
   D.C. Apprenticeship Act &#8211; D.C. Apprenticeship Act of May 21, 1946 (D.C.
   Code ยง 36-401 et seq. (1988)).
   
   
   
   Deregistration of Programs &#8211; the termination of the registration or
   approval status of an apprenticeship program upon written request of the
   sponsor or upon cause by the Apprenticeship Council instituting formal
   deregistration proceedings in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the District of Columbia Department of
   Employment Services or any person designated by the Director to supervise the
   administration of the provisions of the act.
   
   
   
   District of Columbia State Plan for Equal Opportunity in Apprenticeship
   Training &#8211; a plan outlining policies and procedures for promoting
   equality of opportunity in the recruiting and selection of apprentices and in
   all conditions of employment and training during the term of apprenticeship,
   adopted in accordance with 29 CFR Part 30 (1988).
   
   
   
   Registration Agency &#8211; the District of Columbia Apprenticeship Council.
   
   
   
   Related Instruction &#8211; an organized and systematic form of instruction
   designed to provide the apprentice with knowledge of the theoretical and
   technical subjects related to the apprentice&#8217;s trade. The sponsor shall
   be responsible for the administration and supervision of related and
   supplemental instruction for apprentices and coordination of the instruction
   with job experience; the selection and training of teachers and coordinators
   for such instruction shall be approved by the Apprenticeship Council.
   
   
   
   Sponsor &#8211; any person or organization operating an apprenticeship
   program, irrespective of whether such person or organization is an employer.
   
   
   
   Workforce &#8211; all employees paid by the employer.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 6007-09(September 14,
   1990).
