                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEREGISTRATION OF APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS (ยง 7-1104)

1104.1. At the sponsor&#8217;s request, the Apprenticeship Council may de-
   register an apprenticeship program by giving written notice to the sponsor,
   indicating that the program is voluntarily deregistered and giving the
   effective date of such action.

   1104.2. Where an apprenticeship program is not being operated in accordance
   with the registered program or with the requirements of these rules, the
   Director shall send to the sponsor a preliminary notice of involuntary
   deregistration, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested,
   stating the deficiency and the corrective action required, and stating that
   the program will be deregistered for cause unless corrective action is taken
   within thirty (30) days from the date of the notice.

   1104.3. The Director may upon written request extend the period for corrective
   action for up to thirty (30) additional days.

   1104.4. The Director shall assist the sponsor in correcting the deficiency.

   1104.5. The Director shall send a final notice of involuntary deregistration
   to the sponsor by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested,
   where corrective actions have not been timely taken, stating that the
   deficiency and the remedial action required were called to the sponsor&#8217;s
   attention, and stating that the program will be deregistered, unless the
   sponsor requests a hearing within fifteen (15) working days from the date of
   the notice.

   1104.6. If the sponsor requests a hearing, the Chairperson shall convene the
   Apprenticeship Council, which shall hold a hearing and make a determination on
   the basis of the preponderance of evidence in the hearing record.

   1104.7. At any such hearing, the Apprenticeship Council shall offer the
   sponsor the opportunity to appear with counsel, present documentary evidence
   and witnesses, and confront any other documentary evidence or witnesses.

   1104.8. The Apprenticeship Council shall record any such hearing and make a
   copy or transcript of the record available at cost to the sponsor on request.

   1104.9. Every order of voluntary or involuntary deregistration issued by the
   Apprenticeship Council shall provide that the sponsor shall, within fifteen
   (15) working days of the effective date of the order, notify all registered
   apprentices of the deregistration of the program, the effective date, and that
   such action automatically terminates the apprentice&#8217;s individual
   registration.

   1104.10. The Apprenticeship Council shall promptly notify all District and
   Federal authorities of the deregistration of any apprenticeship program and
   the effective date.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 6003-05(September 14,
   1990).
