                                  DC REGULATIONS

STANDARDS FOR REGISTERING INDIVIDUAL APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENTS (ยง 7-1107)

1107.1. The Director shall register individual apprenticeship agreements which
   meet the requirements of this section.

   1107.2. Each Apprenticeship Agreement shall contain the names, addresses, and
   signatures of the contracting parties, the apprentice, the program sponsor or
   the employer, and the signature of a parent or guardian if the apprentice is a
   minor.

   1107.3. Each Apprenticeship Agreement shall state the date of birth of the
   apprentice.

   1107.4. Each Apprenticeship Agreement shall provide that the sponsor shall
   notify the Director in writing within ten (10) days of any modification,
   cancellation, suspension, or termination of the agreement, with cause for
   same, and of completion of the apprenticeship.

   1107.5. Each Apprenticeship Agreement shall state the craft or occupation in
   which the apprentice is to be trained, and the beginning date and term
   (duration) of the apprenticeship; a schedule of work processes in the trade or
   occupation in which the apprentice is to be trained and the approximate time
   to be spent at each process; the total number of hours to be spent by the
   apprentice in work on the job; and the total number of hours to be spent in
   related and supplemental instruction.

   1107.6. Each Apprenticeship Agreement shall state the specific period of
   probation during which the apprenticeship agreement may be terminated by the
   Director on the request of either party to the agreement.

   1107.7. Each Apprenticeship Agreement shall provide that after the
   probationary period, the agreement may be cancelled by the Director at the
   request of the apprentice or may be cancelled, or terminated only for good
   cause, with due notice of not less than ten (10) days to the apprentice and a
   reasonable opportunity for corrective action, and with written notice to the
   apprentice and to the Apprenticeship Council of the final action taken and of
   the right of the apprentice to appeal the decision to the Apprenticeship
   Council.

   1107.8. Each Apprenticeship Agreement shall incorporate by reference the
   standards for the participating apprenticeship program approved by the
   Apprenticeship Council as they exist on the date of the agreement and as they
   may be amended during the period of the agreement.

   1107.9. Each Apprenticeship Agreement shall provide that the apprentice shall
   be accorded equal opportunity in all phases of apprenticeship employment and
   training without discrimination because of race, color, religion, national
   origin, or sex, and notice of a right to appeal under provisions of the
   District of Columbia State Plan for Equal Opportunity in Apprenticeship
   Training, adopted pursuant to 29 CFR Part 30 (1988).

   1107.10. Each Apprenticeship Agreement shall state that if a sponsor is unable
   to fulfill his obligation, the agreement may, with consent of the apprentice
   and the joint committee if one exists, or of the Director if there is no joint
   committee, be transferred to another sponsor under a registered program and
   with full credit to the apprentice for satisfactory time and training earned.

   1107.11. Each Apprenticeship Agreement shall provide that all controversies or
   differences concerning the apprenticeship agreement which cannot be adjusted
   by conference between the apprentice and the sponsor or under the terms of the
   apprenticeship standards shall be submitted to the Director, and shall provide
   the Director&#8217;s address.

   1107.12. Each Apprenticeship Agreement shall contain a statement of the
   graduated scale of wages to be paid the apprentice and whether or not the
   required school time shall be compensated.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 6005-6006(September
   14, 1990).
