                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (ยง 1-4801)

4801.1. Each financial institution desiring to be an eligible financial
   institution shall submit information, in the form provided by the Chief
   Financial Officer of the District of Columbia, which is appropriate for the
   evaluation of the condition of such financial institution.

   4801.2. The factors to be considered by the Chief Financial Officer of the
   District of Columbia in approving a financial institution as an eligible
   financial institution shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The financial history and condition of the financial institution and its
   affiliates;
   
   
   
   (b)	The submission of reports by the financial institution and its affiliates
   to the Federal Reserve System, Securities and Exchange Commission, and
   National Association of Securities Dealers;
   
   
   
   (c)	The prospects of the financial institution and its affiliates as shown by
   satisfactory business relations with other governments;
   
   
   
   (d)	The integrity of the management of the financial institution and its
   affiliates reflected in a history of dealing in government securities;
   
   
   
   (e)	The efficiency of the financial institution and its affiliates in making
   delivery of collateral and providing the requested transaction documentation;
   and
   
   
   
   (f)	The convictions, fines, reprimands, suspensions or other penalties imposed
   by any court of law or regulatory body on the financial institution or its
   affiliates.

   4801.3. No financial institution desiring to be an eligible financial
   institution shall be required to submit information and reports not made
   public under federal regulations.

   4801.4. Each eligible financial institution shall keep current any information
   required to be submitted pursuant to this subsection and shall immediately
   notify the Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia of any change
   in its condition or in its total assets which causes investments to exceed the
   limitation of ยง 4802.

   4801.5. Each eligible financial institution and each of its affiliates shall
   submit its financial statements and audit report prepared by an independent
   certified public accountant to the Chief Financial Officer of the District of
   Columbia not later than four (4) months after the end of each of its fiscal
   years.

   4801.6. Any financial institution which misrepresents any material information
   required to be submitted pursuant to this section shall be terminated as an
   eligible financial institution by the Chief Financial Officer of the District
   of Columbia and shall be ineligible for placement of investments for public
   funds for a period of not less than two (2) years thereafter.

   4801.7. The Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia may in his or
   her sole discretion terminate an eligible financial institution for cause.
   Cause shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Bankruptcy;
   
   
   
   (b)	Default or insolvency;
   
   
   
   (c)	 Exceeding limitation on amount;
   
   
   
   (d)	Failure to deliver collateral; or
   
   
   
   (e)	 Slowness in repayment.

   4801.8. The Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia shall publish
   in the D.C. Register the name and address of each financial institution which
   has been approved by him or her as an eligible financial institution or has
   been terminated by him or her.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 5098-5100 (September 6, 1985).
