                                  DC REGULATIONS

MULTIPLE-BEAM ROAD LIGHTING EQUIPMENT (§ 18-715)

715.1. Except as provided otherwise in this section, the headlamps, the
   auxiliary driving lamp, the auxiliary passing lamp, or combination of such
   lamps on motor vehicles other than motorcycles or motorized bicycles shall be
   so arranged that the driver may select at will between distributions of light
   projected to different elevations. These lamps may be so arranged that the
   selection can be made automatically, subject to the limitations stated in this
   section.

   715.2. There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
   so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
   of at least three hundred fifty feet (350 ft.) ahead for all conditions of
   loading.

   715.3. There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam, so
   aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
   of least one hundred feet (100 ft.) ahead; and on a straight, level road under
   any condition of loading, none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall
   be directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.

   715.4. Each new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle,
   which has multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam
   indicator, which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light
   from the head lamps is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This
   indicator shall be so designed and located that when lighted it will be
   readily visible without glare to the driver of the vehicle so equipped.

   715.5. Each motor vehicle equipped with multiple-beam head lamps operating on
   the highways of the District when lights are required shall use the lower or
   city-driving beam.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 72-13 effective June 30, 1972.32 DCRR § 6.219,
   Special Edition; as amended by §§ 2(p), (q) of the District of Columbia
   Motorized Bicycle Act, D.C. Law 1-110, 23 DCR 4954 (January 21, 1977).
