                                  DC REGULATIONS

TRACTOR AND TRAILER BRAKES (ยง 18-721)

721.1. Each trailer, semi-trailer, and pole trailer equipped with air or
   vacuum actuated brakes and every trailer, semi-trailer, and pole trailer with
   a gross weight in excess of three thousand pounds (3,000 lbs.), manufactured
   or assembled after September 15, 1963, shall be equipped with brakes acting on
   all wheels which will be applied automatically and promptly, and remain
   applied for at least fifteen (15) minutes, upon breakaway from the towing
   vehicle.

   721.2. Every motor vehicle manufactured or assembled after September 15, 1963,
   and used to tow a trailer, semi-trailer or pole trailer equipped with brakes,
   shall be equipped with means for providing that, in case of breakaway of the
   towed vehicle, the towing vehicle will be capable of being stopped by the use
   of its service brakes.

   721.3. Air brake systems installed on trailers manufactured or assembled after
   September 15, 1963, shall be so designed that the supply reservoir used to
   provide air for the brakes shall be safeguarded against backflow of air from
   the reservoir through the supply line.

   721.4. Each towing vehicle, when used to tow another vehicle equipped with air
   controlled brakes in other than driveway or towaway operations, shall be
   equipped with two (2) means for emergency application of the trailer brakes.

   721.5. One of the means for emergency application of trailer brakes shall
   apply the brakes automatically in the event of a reduction of the towing
   vehicle air supply to a fixed pressure which shall not be lower than twenty
   pounds per square inch (20 lbs./in.) or higher than forty-five pounds per
   square inch (45 lbs./in.).

   721.6. The other means for emergency application of the trailer brakes shall
   be a manually controlled device for applying and releasing the brakes, readily
   operable by a person seated in the driving seat and its emergency position or
   method of operation shall be clearly indicated. In no instance may the manual
   means be arranged to permit its use to prevent operation of the automatic
   means. The automatic and manual means required by this section may be
   separate, but are not required to be separate.

   721.7. Each towing vehicle used to tow other vehicles equipped with vacuum
   brakes in operations other than driveway or towaway operations, shall have, in
   addition to the single control device required by ยง 720.10, a second control
   device which can be used to operate the brakes on towed vehicles in
   emergencies.

   721.8. The second control required by ยง 721.7 shall be independent of other
   controls, unless the braking system be so arranged that failure of the
   pressure on which the second control depends will cause the towed vehicle
   brakes to be applied automatically. The second control is not required to
   provide modulated braking.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 72-13 effective June 30, 1972, 32 DCRR ยง 6.301,
   Special Edition.
