                                  DC REGULATIONS

MOTORCYCLE SAFETY GOGGLES (§ 18-742)

742.1. The American National Standards Institute, Inc., Practice for
   Occupational and Educational Eye and Face Protection, Z87.1-1968, designated
   “Eye Protection,” is adopted as the minimum standards for safety goggles
   required to be worn by operators and passengers on motorcycles.

   742.2. No goggles shall be approved unless they meet the specifications in
   that portion of the American National Standards Institute, Inc., Practice for
   Occupational and Educational Eye and Face Protection which are established in
   this section, Provided, that goggles shall provide visual clearance to the
   extent of one hundred five (105º) degrees to each side of the sagittal plane.

   742.3. The test procedure for goggles shall refer to those standards which are
   applicable to all eye protection devices and which are applicable to the
   following types of goggles being tested:
   
   
   
   (a)	Goggles and eye cups (except welders’ and cutters’ models);
   
   
   
   (b)	Goggles- flexible fitting;
   
   
   
   (c)	Spectacles- metal or plastic frame; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Spectacles- plastic eye shield.

   742.4. The following modifications to the test standards shall be applicable:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provisions with respect to selection of eye and protective devices shall
   not apply; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Language referring to “employees” shall be deemed to refer to
   motorcycle riders.

   742.5. Goggles approved by the Director shall contain, on a lens or frame, the
   readily identifiable mark used by the Manufacturer to indicate compliance with
   the specifications described in this section.

   742.6. Each device shall be permanently labeled with the manufacturer’s
   trade name and number, which shall be the same trade name and number used in
   the approval application.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No 72-13 effective June 30, 1972. 32 DCRR § 6.507 (a)
   &#8211; (c), Special Edition.
