                                  DC REGULATIONS

LAMPS AND OTHER LIGHTING EQUIPMENT (§ 18-703)

703.1. Each vehicle operated on a highway at any time from one half (½) hour
   after sunset to one-half (½) hour before sunrise, and at any other time when,
   due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and
   vehicles on the highway are not clearly discernible at a distance of five
   hundred feet (500 ft.) ahead shall display lighted lamps and illuminating
   devices as required in this chapter for different classes of vehicles, subject
   to exceptions with respect to parked vehicles.

   703.2. The provisions of this chapter which set forth specific distances from
   which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or distances
   within which such lamps or devices shall be visible, shall apply during the
   times stated in this section with respect to a vehicle without load when upon
   a straight, level, unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions,
   unless a different time or condition is expressly stated.

   703.3. The provisions of this chapter which require a specific mounted height
   of lamps or devices shall mean a distance measured from the center of the lamp
   or device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands when the vehicle
   is without a load.

   703.4. The sections of this chapter which relate to clearance and marker
   lamps, reflectors, and stop lights shall apply as stated in those sections to
   vehicles of the type enumerated in those sections; namely, passenger buses,
   trucks, truck trailers, and certain trailers, semi-trailers, and pole
   trailers, respectively, when operated upon any street or highway.

   703.5. The vehicles cited in § 703.4 shall be equipped as required and all
   lamp equipment required shall be lighted at the times mentioned in this
   section, Provided, that clearance and side marker lamps need not be lighted on
   any such vehicle when operated where there is sufficient light to render
   clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the highway at a distance of five
   hundred feet (500 ft.).

   703.6. Whenever motor vehicles and other vehicles are operated in combination
   during the time when lights are required, any lamp (except tail lamps) need
   not be lighted which, by reason of its location on a vehicle of the
   combination, would be obscured by another vehicle of the combination;
   Provided, that this shall not affect the requirement that lighted clearance
   lamps be displayed on the front of the foremost vehicle required to have
   clearance lamps, nor that all lights required on the rear of the rear most
   vehicle of any combination shall be lighted.

   703.7. Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet (4
   ft.) or more beyond the bed or body of the loaded vehicle, there shall be
   displayed at the extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in this
   section, a red light or lantern plainly visible from distance of at least five
   hundred feet (500 ft.) to the sides and rear.

   703.8. The red light or lantern required in this section shall be in addition
   to the red rear light required upon every vehicle.

   703.9. At any other time when lights are not required, there shall be
   displayed at the extreme rear end of the extended load a red flag or cloth not
   less than twelve inches square (12 in.) which is so hung that the entire area
   is visible to the driver of a vehicle approaching from the rear.

   703.10. In addition to the requirements of subsection 703.1, whenever a motor
   vehicle’s windshield wipers are operated for a continuous period of time
   because of impaired visibility resulting from unfavorable atmospheric
   conditions, the vehicle headlamps shall also be lighted. Provided, however:
   
   
   
   (a)	A violation of this subsection shall not constitute or be used as evidence
   of negligence or contributory negligence, limit liability of any party or
   insurer, or diminish the recovery for damages arising out of the ownership,
   maintenance, or operation of a motor vehicle.
   
   
   
   (b)	A police officer may enforce the provisions of this subsection only as a
   secondary action when the police officer detains a driver of a motor vehicle
   for a suspected violation of another traffic regulation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No 72-13 effective June 30, 1972, 32 DCRR §§ 6.201,
   6.206, 6.207, 6.212, 6.213, Special Edition.
