                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVAL OF EQUIPMENT BY DIRECTOR (§ 18-702)

702.1. The Director is authorized to approve or disapprove lighting devices
   and other equipment and accessories required by this chapter which are
   intended to be used on a motor vehicle or trailer.

   702.2. The Director shall approve or disapprove any lighting device of a type
   for which approval is specifically required in this chapter within a
   reasonable time after the device has been submitted.

   702.3. The Director is further authorized to set up the procedure which shall
   be followed when any device is submitted for approval.

   702.4. No person shall have for sale, sell, or offer for sale for use upon or
   as a part of the equipment of a motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer or use
   upon any such vehicle, any head lamp, auxiliary driving lamp, rear lamp,
   signal lamp, or reflector (required by this chapter), or any other lamp, or
   parts of any of the foregoing which tend to change the original design or
   performance, unless of a type which has been submitted to the Director and
   approved by him or her.

   702.5. The Director, upon approving any lamp or device, shall issue to the
   applicant a certificate of approval together with any instructions determined
   by him or her.

   702.6. The Director shall publish lists of all lamps and devices by name and
   type which have been approved by him or her, together with instructions as to
   the permissible candlepower rating of the bulbs which he or she has determined
   for use in them, and such other instructions with respect to adjustment as the
   Director may consider necessary.

   702.7. Approval may be revoked if at any time a device falls below the
   standard of quality upon which approval was based.

   702.8. When the Director has reason to believe that an approved device which
   is being sold commercially does not comply with this chapter, he may, after
   giving thirty (30) days prior notice to .the person holding the certificate of
   approval for the device in the District, conduct a hearing on the question of
   compliance of the device.

   702.9. After the hearing, the Director shall determine whether the device
   meets the requirements of this chapter and he or she shall give notice to the
   person holding the certificate of approval for the device in the District.

   702.10. If, at the expiration of ninety (90) days after the notice, the person
   holding the certificate of approval for the device has failed to satisfy the
   Director that the approved device as thereafter to be sold meets the
   requirements of this chapter, the Director shall suspend or revoke the
   approval issued for the device until the device is re-submitted to and
   re-tested by an authorized testing agency and is found to meet the
   requirements of this chapter.

   702.11. The Director may require that all of the devices sold after the
   notification following the hearing be replaced with devices that do comply
   with the requirements of this chapter.

   702.12. The Director may, at the time of the re-test, purchase on the open
   market and submit to the testing agency one (1) or more sets of the approved
   devices, and if the device upon such retest fails to meet the requirements of
   this chapter, the Director may refuse to renew the certificate of approval of
   the device.

   702.13. No person shall have for sale, sell, or offer for sale for use upon or
   as a part of the equipment of a motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer, any
   lamp or device mentioned in this section which has been approved by the
   Director, unless that lamp or device bears the trade-mark or name under which
   it is approved so as to be legible when installed.

   702.14. No person shall use upon any motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer,
   any lamps mentioned in this section unless the lamps are equipped with bulbs
   of a rated candlepower and are mounted and adjusted to focus and aim in
   accordance with this chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 72-13 effective June 30, 1972, 32 DCRR §§ 6.226
   &#8211; 6.228, Special Edition.
