                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROMOTION AND TRANSFER OF VENDORS (ยง 29-207)

207.1. The licensing agency, with the active participation of the Committee of
   Blind Vendors, shall establish a promotion and transfer system for vendors
   that shall be uniformly applied to all vacancies which develop or occur in the
   Program.

   207.2. Eligibility for promotion and transfer within the Program shall be
   governed by a point system which determines the ranking of all licensed
   vendors.

   207.3. Rating points, as described in this section shall be awarded on the
   basis of seniority and performance.

   207.4. When a vending facility vacancy occurs, the vendor with the highest
   number of rating points shall be offered the opportunity to transfer to the
   vacant facility. If that vendor declines, the transfer shall be offered to the
   next highest ranked vendor. This procedure shall continue until the vacancy is
   filled.

   207.5. All vendors shall be guaranteed the right to decline a transfer without
   penalty and shall be allowed up to forty-eight (48) hours in which to accept
   or reject a transfer.

   207.6. Vendors may be denied the opportunity to transfer, on a temporary
   basis, if documentation developed with the active participation of the Blind
   Vendors Committee reflects serious managerial problems which prevent a vendor
   from operating in an acceptable manner. The right to transfer shall be
   reinstated when the vendor demonstrates acceptable overall managerial
   performance.

   207.7. Seniority shall be determined by the length of time during which
   persons have been licensed as vendors in the Program in the District.

   207.8. Seniority shall begin to accrue upon the date of issuance of the
   original license to a vendor and continue until resignation, death, or
   dismissal from the Program.

   207.9. If a former licensee returns to the Program, the seniority points
   earned during the prior tenure shall be reinstated, unless the Promotion and
   Transfer Committee votes unanimously to deny the reinstatement.

   207.10. A vendor shall accumulate one (1) rating point for each six (6) months
   of seniority until he or she has received forty (40) points. After
   accumulating forty (40) points, a vendor shall then accumulate one (1) point
   for each twelve (12) months of seniority.

   207.11. A semi-annual evaluation of performance shall be made according to the
   following performance criteria and rating points system:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (a)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Supervision of personnel
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   5points;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (b)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Knowledge of business
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   5points;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (c)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Ability to serve
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   5points;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (d)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Care and utilization of equipment
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   5points;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (e)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Recordkeeping
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   5points;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (f)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Sanitation
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   5points;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (g)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Customer relations
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   5points; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   (h)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Adherence to rules and regulations
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   5points.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Maximum:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   40 points

   207.12. Performance ratings shall be judged on the manner in which vendors
   apply themselves to all the various phases of vending facility operation and
   the degree to which they meet the requirements and standards of the Program.

   207.13. Performance shall be determined by a semi-annual evaluation of all
   vendors conducted by the Promotion and Transfer Committee, based upon reports
   of supervisory personnel of the nominee organization and other pertinent
   reports including documented complaints.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: DCRR Title 6C, as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 27 DCR
   4611 (October 17, 1980).
