                                  DC REGULATIONS

INCOME FROM VENDING FACILITIES ON FEDERAL PROPERTY (§ 29-204)

204.1. Income from vending machines on federal property, which has been
   disbursed to the licensing agency by a property managing department, agency,
   or instrumentality of the United States under the vending facility provisions
   in §1369.32 of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations shall accrue to
   each blind vendor operating a vending facility on that federal property in an
   amount not to exceed the average net income of the total number of blind
   vendors within the District, as determined each fiscal year on the basis of
   each prior year&#8217;s operation, except as provided in §204.2.

   204.2. Vending machine income shall not accrue to any blind vendor in any
   amount exceeding the average net income of the total number of blind vendors
   in the United States.

   204.3. No blind vendor shall receive less vending machine income that the
   individual received during the calendar year prior to January 1, 1974, as a
   direct result of any limitation imposed on income under the ceiling set forth
   in §204.2.

   204.4. No limitation shall be imposed on income from vending machines,
   combined to create a vending facility, when the facility is maintained,
   serviced, or operated by a blind vendor.

   204.5. The licensing agency shall retain vending machine income disbursed by a
   property managing department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States
   in excess of the amount authorized to accrue to blind vendors.

   204.6. The Licensing Agency shall disburse vending machine income to blind
   vendors on at least a quarterly basis.

   204.7. Vending machine income retained by the licensing agency shall be used
   for the establishment and maintenance of retirement or pension plans, for
   health insurance contributions, and for the provision of paid sick leave and
   vacation time for blind vendors, if it is so determined by a majority vote of
   licensed vendors, after each has been furnished information on all matters
   relevant to these purposes.

   204.8. Any vending machine income not necessary for the purposes outlined in
   §204.7 shall be used for one (1) or more of the following purposes:
   
   
   
   (a)	Maintenance and replacement of equipment;
   
   
   
   (b)	Purchase of new equipment;
   
   
   
   (c)	Management services; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Ensuring a fair minimum return to vendors.

   204.9. Any assessment charged to blind vendors shall be reduced pro rata in an
   amount equal to the total of remaining vending machine income.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: DCRR Title 6C, as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 27 DCR
   4611 (October 17, 1980).
