                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 29-299)

299.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Act &#8211; Randolph Sheppard Act, Public Law 74-332, as amended, 20 U.S.C.
   §§ 107-107f.
   
   
   
   Administration – the District of Columbia Department on Disability Services,
   Rehabilitation Services Administration (DDS/RSA).  The Rehabilitation Services
   Administration has been designated as the State Licensing Agency (SLA) for the
   District of Columbia, responsible for administering the Randolph-Sheppard
   Vending Facilities Program (RSVFP).
   
   
   
   Auxiliary aids and services includes—
   
   
   
   (1) Qualified interpreters, notetakers, transcription services, written
   materials, telephone handset amplifiers, assistive listening devices,
   assistive listening systems, telephones compatible with hearing aids, closed
   caption decoders, open and closed captioning, telecommunications devices for
   deaf persons (TDD&#8217;s), videotext displays, or other effective methods of
   making aurally delivered materials available to individuals with hearing
   impairments;
   
   
   
   (2) Qualified readers, taped texts, audio recordings, Brailled materials,
   large print materials, or other effective methods of making visually delivered
   materials available to individuals with visual impairments;
   
   
   
   (3) Acquisition or modification of equipment or devices; and
   
   
   
   (4) Other similar services and actions.
   
   
   
   Blind licensee &#8211; a blind person licensed by the Department to operate a
   vending facility on federal or other property
   
   
   
   Blind person &#8211; a person who after examination by a physician skilled in
   diseases of the eye or by an optometrist, whichever that person selects, has
   been determined to have either of the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Not more than 20/200 central visual acuity in the better eye with
   correcting lenses; or
   
   
   
   (b)	An equally disabling loss of the visual field as evidenced by a limitation
   to the field of vision in the better eye to such a degree that its widest
   diameter subtends an angle of no greater than twenty degrees (20°).
   
   
   
   Department – the District of Columbia Department on Disability Services
   (DDS).
   
   
   
   Director – the Director of the District of Columbia Department on Disability
   Services or the Director’s designee.
   
   
   
   Division of Services for the Blind &#8211; a division within the Department on
   Disability Services, Rehabilitation Services Administration, which provides
   vocational rehabilitation and entrepreneurial services to blind and
   sight-impaired individuals.
   
   
   
   Due Process Remedies – the collective name for the rights/procedures
   outlined in Chapter 2 of this Title.
   
   
   
   Informal administrative review meeting is an optional first step informal
   nonbinding, non-adversarial process that the Department on Disability
   Services/Rehabilitation Services Administration offers to individuals to
   resolve disputes about any determination concerning the furnishing or denial
   of vocational rehabilitation services.  The vendor or RSVFP trainee meets with
   the Chief of DSB to attempt resolution through interviews, negotiation, and
   document review.
   
   
   
   License &#8211; a written instruction issued by the Department to a blind
   person, authorizing that person to operate a vending facility on federal or
   other property.
   
   
   
   Licensing Agency &#8211; the agency designated by the Mayor under this part to
   issue licenses to blind persons for the operation of vending facilities on
   federal and other property.
   
   
   
   Management services &#8211; supervision, inspection, quality control,
   consultation, accounting, regulating, in-service training, and other related
   services provided on a systematic basis to support and improve vending
   facilities operated by blind vendors. It does not include those services or
   costs which pertain to the on-going operation of an individual facility after
   the initial establishment period.
   
   
   
   Net proceeds &#8211; the amount remaining from the sale of articles or
   services of vending facilities, and any vending machine or other income
   accruing to blind vendors after deducting the cost of the sale and other
   expenses (excluding set-aside charges required to be paid by blind vendors).
   
   
   
   Nominee &#8211; a nonprofit agency or organization designated by the
   Department through a written agreement to act as its agent in the provision of
   services to blind licensees under the vending facility program.
   
   
   
   Nominee agreement or servicing agreement &#8211; a written agreement that the
   Department may enter into by which another agency or organization undertakes
   to furnish services to blind vendors, containing provisions that:
   
   
   
   (a)	Clearly ensure the retention by the Department of full responsibility for
   the administration and operation of all phases of the Program;
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide that no set-aside charges will be collected from blind vendors
   except as specified in the agreement;
   
   
   
   (c)	Specify that no nominee will be allowed to exercise any function with
   respect to funds for the purchase of new equipment or for ensuring a fair
   minimum of return to vendors, except to collect and hold solely for
   disposition in accordance with the order of the Department any charges
   authorized for those purposes by the Department;
   
   
   
   (d)	Specify that only the Department shall have control with respect to the
   selection, placement, transfer, financial participation and termination of the
   vendors, and the preservation, utilization, and disposition of program assets;
   and
   
   
   
   (e)	Specify the type and extent of the services to be provided under the
   agreement.
   
   
   
   Party &#8211; a person admitted to participate in a hearing conducted pursuant
   to these rules. A complainant and any affected persons shall be entitled to be
   named parties. The Administration shall be deemed to be a party without the
   necessity of being so named.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; an individual, partnership, association, corporation, business
   trust, legal representative, or organized group of individuals or an agency,
   authority, or instrumentality or the Federal or District governments.
   
   
   
   Proceeding &#8211; any formal action before a hearing examiner.
   
   
   
   Randolph-Sheppard Vending Facilities Program (RSVFP) – the program which
   licenses blind vendors and provides ongoing support services, in accordance
   with the Randolph-Sheppard Vending Stand Act and 34 C.F.R. § 395.7.
   
   
   
   Representative &#8211; any person authorized by a party to represent that
   party in a proceeding. Nothing in these rules shall be understood as requiring
   that a representative be an attorney.
   
   
   
   RSVFP Trainee – an individual who:
   
   
   
   
   
   is not a licensed vendor pursuant to the Randolph-Sheppard Vending Stand Act;
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   is receiving vocational rehabilitation services / training pursuant to the
   Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and 34 C.F.R. § 395.11.
   
   
   
   Set-aside funds &#8211; funds which accrue to the Department from an
   assessment against the net proceeds of each vending facility in the
   District&#8217;s vending facility program and any income from vending machines
   on federal property which accrues to the Department.
   
   
   
   State Committee of Blind Vendors &#8211; a committee established pursuant to
   Mayor’s Order 77-131, dated August 8, 1977, as amended by Mayor’s Order
   78-22, dated January 12, 1978, to advise and consult with the Rehabilitation
   Services Administration on issues affecting the administration of the Blind
   Vendors Program.
   
   
   
   State Licensing Agency – the State Agency designated by the Secretary,
   pursuant to 34 C.F.R. § 395  et seq., to issue licenses to blind persons for
   the operation of vending facilities on Federal and other property.
   
   
   
   Vending facility &#8211; automatic vending machines, cafeterias, snack bars,
   cart service, shelters, counters, and other appropriate auxiliary equipment
   that may be operated by blind licensees and which is necessary for the sale of
   newspapers, periodicals, confections, tobacco products, foods, beverages, and
   other articles or services dispensed automatically or manually and prepared on
   or off the premises in accordance with all applicable health laws, and
   including the vending or exchange of changes for any lottery authorized by
   District law and conducted by the Department within the District.
   
   
   
   Vending machine &#8211; for the purpose of assigning vending machine income
   under this chapter, a coin or currency operated machine which dispenses
   articles or services; Provided, that those machines operated by the United
   States Postal Service for the sale of postage stamps or other postal products
   and services, machines providing services of a recreational nature, and
   telephones shall not be considered to be vending machines.
   
   
   
   Vendor &#8211; a blind licensee who is operating a vending facility on federal
   or other property.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: DCRR Title 6C, as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 27 DCR
   4611 (October 17, 1980); and by Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 8538
   (December 9, 1988); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 4612,
   4626 (May 28, 2010).
