                                  DC REGULATIONS

ITEMIZED STATEMENTS AND RECEIPTS (ยง 16-409)

409.1. Before commencing a private tow, the tow truck operator shall furnish
   to the owner or operator of the vehicle to be towed a signed and itemized
   estimate of charges for the tow and other services to be rendered, on a form
   approved by the Director. The owner or operator of the vehicle shall sign the
   form before commencement of the tow.

   409.2. Each itemized estimate of charges, as prescribed in ยง 409.1, shall
   contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The location from which and to which the vehicle is to be towed;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name and address of the towing business and the name of the tow truck
   operator;
   
   
   
   (c)	If available, the name and address of the owner or operator of the vehicle
   to be towed;
   
   
   
   (d)	A brief description of the vehicle to be towed;
   
   
   
   (e)	The license plate number and state of registration of the vehicle to be
   towed;
   
   
   
   (f)	An itemized estimate of fees to be charged for towing services;
   
   
   
   (g)	The maximum rate charged per 24 hour period or part thereof, for the
   storage of the towed vehicle, and a statement that the 24 hour period shall
   start when the vehicle enters the towing service storage lot; and
   
   
   
   (h)	The location of the towing service storage lot or repair facility to which
   the vehicle will be towed.

   409.3. After rendering the towing and related services, the tow truck operator
   shall enter upon the itemized statement the actual amount paid for services
   rendered, and shall sign the statement to acknowledge receipt of payment.

   409.4. A copy of each statement and receipt submitted by a tow truck operator
   in accordance with the requirements of this section shall be retained by the
   towing business for three (3) years from the date of issuance, and shall be
   exhibited upon demand to the Chief of Police or the Director or their agents.

   409.5. The direction to tow by an authorized official, in accordance with any
   section of these regulations, shall not constitute an agreement on his/her
   behalf, or on behalf of the agency for which he/she works, to pay any charges
   in connection with the tow, but shall constitute only an authorization to
   remove the motor vehicle.

   409.6. The owner of a towed vehicle shall be responsible for paying all
   charges for a public tow, and all related towing services charges, in an
   amount not to exceed the charges authorized by the Director pursuant to ยง
   408.1.

   409.7. Payment of all lawful towing and storage charges shall be made by the
   owner of the vehicle, an agent of the owner, or the insurer of the vehicle
   before the vehicle is released by the towing business, the tow truck operator,
   or towing service storage lot operator.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 522 (January 21, 2005).
