                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (§ 16-400)

400.1. [RESERVED]

   400.2. Except as provided herein, the provisions of this chapter shall apply
   to every person and entity that provides, or offers to provide, towing
   services within the District of Columbia, and shall apply to every person and
   entity that provides, or offers to provide, storage facilities for towed
   vehicles.

   400.3. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the towing of
   vehicles by the government agency that owns or controls them.

   400.4. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the towing of
   vehicles by any tow truck owned or operated by an entity or agency of the
   federal government or the District of Columbia Government.

   400.5. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the towing of
   vehicles by tow trucks owned by the person or entity that owns the towed
   vehicles, where the tow trucks are used only to tow the tow truck owner’s
   own vehicles and tow services are not offered to the public.

   400.6. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to: vehicles towed into
   or through the District of Columbia if the tow originates in another
   jurisdiction and the tow truck is licensed in that other jurisdiction, or to
   tow trucks registered in another jurisdiction responding to a call from the
   owner or operator for the removal of a motor vehicle from the District into
   another jurisdiction, provided that the tow truck is not equipped with a radio
   receiver capable of being tuned to the Metropolitan Police Radio wave lengths
   or frequencies.

   400.7. Nothing contained in this chapter shall preclude any entity of the
   Government of the District of Columbia from establishing policies and
   procedures governing the towing of vehicles by or for that entity, provided
   that such additional policies and procedures are consistent with the
   provisions of this chapter.

   400.8. Upon demand by the owner or operator of a towed vehicle, a towing
   business shall provide the name, address, and current telephone number of the
   towing business’s insurance carrier, and the account number of the insurance
   policy.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 522 (January 21, 2005).
