                                  DC REGULATIONS

PAYMENT FOR SERVICES (§ 16-408)

408.1. The maximum rates that may be charged for all public tows initiated
   within the District of Columbia, and for all other services, including vehicle
   storage charges, related to public tows shall be as follows:
   
   (a)	$ 50 for providing Road Service for all vehicles, including all services
   provided to restore and or maintain operation of a vehicle, including services
   such as repairing tires, recharging batteries, and delivering gasoline;
   
   
   
   (b)	For Standard Towing Services, which apply to any passenger vehicle or any
   other vehicle with a Gross Vehicle Weight of 8,000 pounds, or less:
   
   
   
   (1)	$ 100.00 for Preparation, hoist, and tow to location within the District
   (Roll-back or wheel lift &#8211; use of dollies included);
   
   
   
   (2)	$ 3.00 for Towing charge per mile for each mile beyond the District line
   (at owner’s request); and
   
   
   
   (3)	$ 20.00 for Storage, per 24-hour period, or part thereof.
   
   
   
   (c)	For Heavy-Duty Towing, which applies to any vehicle with a Gross Vehicle
   Weight over 8,000 pounds:
   
   
   
   (1)	$ 275.00 for Preparation, hoist, and tow to a location within the District
   (Roll-back or wheel lift &#8211; use of dollies included);
   
   
   
   (2)	$ 6.00 for Towing charge per mile beyond the District line (at owner’s
   request); and
   
   
   
   (3)	$ 20.00 for Storage per 24-hour period, or part thereof.
   
   
   
   (d)	$ 50.00 for Discontinuance Fee (“Drop Fee”) that is charged when the
   operator of a vehicle that is to be towed asks that the tow be discontinued
   and the police officer or other official who requested the tow agrees to
   discontinue the tow, in accordance with 16 DCMR 408.6.

   408.2. No rates charged by a towing business for private tows may exceed the
   rates set forth in the towing business’s Basic Business License Endorsement
   application (including amendments thereto).

   408.3. The holder of a Basic Business License for a Towing Business may
   collect extra charges on-site for the use of cranes, winches, dollies, or
   other equipment or services to perform a public tow under extraordinary
   circumstances or for the restoration or cleaning of an accident site. Within
   72 hours after collecting extra charges, the towing business must submit
   documentary evidence of the extraordinary circumstances to the Director along
   with a written request for approval of the charges. The Director shall provide
   a written response within 14 calendar days of receipt of the request for
   approval. If the Director does not approve extra charges, the licensee of a
   towing business must provide a refund to the customer in the amount of the
   disapproved charges within 72 hours of receipt of the Director’s notice of
   disapproval.

   408.4. Storage charges may accrue for any day that the facility is closed to
   the public so long as the facility is open for the reclaiming of vehicles for
   at least ten (10) hours per day, Monday through Friday, during normal business
   hours, and for at least five (5) hours a day, during normal business hours, on
   either Saturday or Sunday.

   408.5. If a tow truck responds to a dispatch, and the police officer or other
   official who requested the public tow determines that services are no longer
   required, no charge shall be made by the towing business or service, except as
   may be authorized by a contract with a government agency. If a towing control
   number has been issued, the towing business shall notify the DPW Towing
   Control Center by telephone.

   408.6. If a tow truck has applied chains, a dolly, a winch, or other towing
   device to prepare a vehicle for public tow, and the owner or operator of the
   vehicle appears and asks that the tow be discontinued, upon concurrence by the
   police officer or other official who requested the tow (if present), the tow
   truck operator shall comply, upon payment by the vehicle owner or operator of
   the rates established for a discontinued public tow. If a towing control
   number has been issued, the towing business shall promptly notify the DPW
   Towing Control Center by telephone.

   408.7. Unless a towing service storage lot has been notified by a governmental
   official that a stored vehicle is to be held for evidentiary or other legally
   permissible purposes, the towing service storage lot shall promptly release
   the vehicle to the owner or the owner&#8217;s agent when presented with proof
   of personal identity and ownership or authorization to reclaim the vehicle,
   and upon payment of all towing and storage charges due.

   408.8. Towing businesses and towing services storage lots shall accept as
   payment for public towing and storage charges, cash, insurance draft,
   certified check, bank check, money order, and at least two (2) of the most
   widely-used, nationally recognized credit cards.

   408.9. The owner or operator of the towing service storage lot shall provide
   to the person to whom the vehicle is released the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The towing control number;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Notice of Infraction or other legal authority for removal of the car;
   
   
   
   (c)	An itemized statement of the charges due;
   
   
   
   (d)	A receipt for all monies paid; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A copy of the Owner’s Bill of Rights for Towed Vehicles.

   408.10. No repair work shall be done on any vehicle ordered moved by a
   government official unless the owner of the vehicle or the owner&#8217;s
   authorized agent specifically authorizes repair work in writing.

   408.11. Written authorization for repair work to any vehicle ordered moved by
   a government official shall be made on a separate form which clearly indicates
   that the form authorizes repair work. The form shall not contain any text in a
   font size smaller than 10 points.

   408.12. Not less than one year after publication of this final rulemaking, the
   schedule of maximum rates will be reviewed upon written request, which
   includes a cost justification, for consideration by the Director. Subsequent
   written requests for review of the schedule of maximum rates will be
   considered not less than 24 months after a prior rate review.

   408.13. After considering a request for review of the schedule of maximum
   rates, the Director, in consultation with the DPW Director, shall determine if
   the schedule of maximum rates should be changed.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 522 (January 21, 2005).
