                                  DC REGULATIONS

INSPECTIONS AUTHORIZED (ยง 16-401)

401.1. The Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs (DCRA) and other
   authorized government officials shall have authority to inspect towing
   businesses and towing service storage lots to determine compliance with these
   regulations. All violations discovered during inspections shall be reported to
   the Director, who may fine, suspend, or revoke the licenses of towing
   businesses, tow trucks, or towing service storage lots in accordance with this
   chapter.

   401.2. Before licensing a towing business, a tow truck, or a towing service
   storage lot, and at any time while a license or endorsement is in effect, a
   towing-related business shall permit the Director and other authorized
   government officials or their agents to inspect towing equipment, tow trucks,
   towing service storage lots, and any logs or documents related to towing
   services initiated within the District of Columbia.

   401.3. To ensure compliance with these regulations, towing service storage
   lots shall be subject to periodic and random unannounced inspections by
   officials of DCRA, and officials of other government agencies authorized to
   inspect towing-related businesses and vehicles in the District of Columbia.

   401.4. No person shall interfere with an inspection authorized under this
   section.

   401.5. Copies of all documents, including any Notices of Infraction,
   computerized data, electronic records, and log book entries regarding the
   towing or impounding of a vehicle by a towing business or towing service
   storage lot shall be maintained at the primary location of the towing business
   indicated on the application submitted in accordance with ยง 402, for a period
   of not less than three (3) years. An owner, tow truck operator, or other
   employee of the towing business or towing services storage lot shall surrender
   or arrange the surrender of such records upon lawful demand by the Director,
   or his/her designated agent, or other authorized government official, within
   one (1) hour of the time of such demand.

   401.6. After demand has been made for records pertaining to any particular
   transaction, no record may be created and submitted as evidence or explanation
   of any towing service that had already been provided, except as may be
   required by an authorized government official during legal proceedings.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 522 (January 21, 2005).
