                                  DC REGULATIONS

PUBLIC TOWS (§ 16-406)

406.1. All public tows will be requested by government officials through DPW
   in accordance with its published central tow ordering and dispatching
   procedures. Any towing business to be used by the District government to
   conduct public tows must be licensed in accordance with these regulations, and
   must agree to the rules established by DPW under its central tow ordering and
   dispatching procedures.

   406.2. When a public tow is required, the owner of the vehicle shall be
   responsible for all charges associated with towing and storing the vehicle,
   except as may otherwise be provided in this chapter.

   406.3. No public tow shall be conducted in the District of Columbia until DPW
   has issued a towing control number for that tow, except in the case of an
   emergency as set forth in § 406.5. After receiving a towing control number
   from DPW, the tow truck operator shall place the towing control number on the
   vehicle to be towed in a manner prescribed by DPW. The towing control number
   shall be used on all documents related to the tow.

   406.4. Before initiating a public tow from private real property, or a public
   tow at the direction of a government entity, a towing business shall provide
   the following information to DPW, in a manner prescribed by DPW:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the tow truck operator, the name of the towing business and
   the crane number;
   
   
   
   (b)	The make, model, year, color, license state, and tag number of the vehicle
   to be towed;
   
   
   
   (c)	The VIN of the vehicle to be towed;
   
   
   
   (d)	The name, address, and phone number of the person requesting the tow, and
   the governmental authority of the person requesting the tow (e.g., police
   officer, parking enforcement official, etc.) if the tow is requested by a
   government entity;
   
   
   
   (e)	The reason for towing the vehicle, including the ticket number and
   violation cited by the governmental authority, if any;
   
   
   
   (f)	The current location of the vehicle;
   
   
   
   (g)	The nature and location of any damage to the vehicle;
   
   
   
   (h)	The address of the place where the vehicle will be towed; and
   
   
   
   (i)	The address, in the District of Columbia, where the vehicle can be
   reclaimed.

   406.5. In an emergency, a police officer may direct a tow truck operator to
   tow a vehicle before the towing business provides all of the information
   required by § 406.4 In those instances, the information required by § 406.4
   shall be furnished and a towing control number obtained as soon thereafter as
   practicable, but in no event more than two (2) hours after the vehicle has
   been towed.

   406.6. When a vehicle is involved in an accident, a public tow of the vehicle
   shall be ordered if necessary in the judgment of the governmental authority at
   the scene of the accident.

   406.7. No vehicle may be towed from private real property, without the consent
   of the owner of the vehicle, unless that vehicle has been issued a citation by
   a police officer or parking enforcement official or at the direction of a
   police officer in an emergency. Under such circumstances, the owner of the
   vehicle shall be responsible for all charges associated with towing and
   storing the vehicle. All public tows from private real property shall be
   conducted in compliance with the provisions of D.C. Official Code §§ 50-2621
   through 50-2624 (2001), which govern the disposition of vehicles left on
   private property in the District of Columbia.

   406.8. Any loss or damage sustained by a vehicle as the result of a public tow
   by a towing business shall be the sole and entire responsibility of the towing
   business and not the Government of the District of Columbia, any department or
   agency thereof, or any government official who requested the tow. The towing
   business shall assume all liability for the vehicle and the property inside
   the vehicle, from the point of hook-up until the vehicle is released to its
   owner or authorized representative. The towing business shall take all
   precautions necessary to protect persons or property against injury or damage,
   and shall provide personnel sufficiently trained and capable to perform tows
   in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s directions for towing a
   particular vehicle.

   406.9. When an authorized government official directs the towing of a vehicle
   to a towing service storage lot, the government official shall notify the
   vehicle owner of record in accordance with DPW procedures, of the tow and
   storage, the storage location of the vehicle, and all other information
   required to be given under applicable District law.

   406.10. When a vehicle is towed as a public tow, the government shall notify
   the vehicle owner of record, in a manner prescribed by DPW, of the tow and
   storage, the storage location of the vehicle, and all other information
   required to be given under applicable District law.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 522 (January 21, 2005).
