                                  DC REGULATIONS

PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT (§ 16-411)

411.1. DCRA shall be responsible for the enforcement of regulations regarding
   towing businesses and towing service storage lots. Authorized officials of
   other government agencies may conduct inspections and issue citations for
   violations or refer them to DCRA for fines, suspension, or revocation of a
   license or endorsement.

   411.2. Any person who believes that a violation of these regulations, or the
   laws of the District of Columbia on which they are based, has occurred, may
   file a complaint with the Director, who shall investigate the complaint and
   take appropriate action.

   411.3. The Director may summon the owner of a towing business, a tow truck
   operator, or the owner of a towing service storage lot to appear before an
   administrative tribunal to respond to alleged violations of the provisions of
   this chapter.

   411.4. A license or endorsement issued under these regulations may be
   suspended or revoked by the Director for any of the following reasons:
   
   (a)	The application for the license or endorsement contained a false statement
   of a material fact, or failed to reveal a material fact which, if disclosed at
   the time the application for the license was filed, would have constituted
   just cause for denial of the application;
   
   
   
   (b)	Failure of the licensee to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any charges for towing service or storage for public tows made in excess
   of the charges set forth by the Director;
   
   
   
   (d)	Failure of the licensee to comply with the provisions of the General
   License Law, D.C. Official Code § 47-2851.01 (2001), et seq.;
   
   
   
   (e)	Engaging in, or holding oneself out as engaging in, towing services or the
   operation of a towing service storage lot without having current and valid
   licenses or endorsements, or without having the equipment, insurance, and
   available storage facilities required by this chapter;
   
   
   
   (f)	Violation of the traffic laws or regulations of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (g)	Failure to maintain qualifications and insurance required by this chapter;
   
   
   
   (h)	Failure to compensate vehicle owners for damage to their vehicles caused
   by, or due to the negligence of, the operators of a tow truck or towing
   service storage lot, and failure to reasonably secure and protect a towed
   vehicle and property therein; or
   
   
   
   (i)	Failure to pay fees, taxes, fines or other monetary obligations to the
   Government of the District of Columbia or the Government of the United States.

   411.5. Any entity whose towing business or towing service storage lot license
   and endorsement has been revoked shall not be eligible to make application for
   a new towing business or towing service storage lot license and endorsement
   for a period of one (1) year from the date of revocation.

   411.6. Any person or entity adversely affected by the denial, revocation, or
   suspension of a tow truck license, towing business or towing service storage
   lot license and endorsement, or who has been fined or otherwise disciplined in
   accordance with the provisions of this chapter, may file an appeal in writing
   with the Board of Appeals and Review of the District of Columbia or its
   successor.

   411.7. In addition to any other penalty prescribed by law, any violation of
   this chapter shall be grounds for revocation or suspension of the license
   issued under this chapter, either before or after conviction.

   411.8. A towing business or tow truck operator who performs towing services,
   and any person or entity who operates a towing service storage lot, without a
   license or endorsement, or with a license that has been revoked or is
   currently suspended, may be subject to arrest, fine and imprisonment.

   411.9. Tow truck operators shall be responsible for removing all accident
   debris from the roadway before towing any vehicle involved in a collision.
   Failure to do so shall be grounds for disciplinary action, including
   suspension or revocation of the tow truck license, and suspension or
   revocation of the towing business&#8217;s license.

   411.10. The tow truck operator shall report the presence and the location of
   debris believed to contain hazardous materials to the DPW Towing Control
   Center by telephone. Failure to do so shall be grounds for disciplinary
   action, including fines, suspension or revocation of the tow truck license,
   and suspension or revocation of the towing business’ license.

   411.11. Upon the request of any District government official, a towing
   business or a tow truck operator shall provide documentary proof of current
   insurance coverage in the form of an all-risk or public liability insurance
   policy of at least $ 750,000.00. Failure to do so shall be grounds for
   disciplinary action, including fines, suspension or revocation of the tow
   truck license, and suspension or revocation of the towing business’s
   license.

   411.12. Failure to provide a refund as described in 410.19 shall be grounds
   for disciplinary action, including fines, suspension or revocation of the tow
   truck license, and suspension or revocation of the towing business’ license.

   411.13. If the person or entity licensed under 402.3 is unable to use the
   towing storage lot identified in 402.3(f) for any reason during the license
   period, then:
   
   
   
   (a)	The licensee shall report this fact in writing to the Director at least
   ten (10) calendar days prior to the day when the towing service storage lot
   will become unavailable;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Basic Business License Endorsement for a Towing Business shall be
   automatically suspended by operation of law during the period that the towing
   service storage lot is unavailable for use by the licensee; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The Basic Business License Endorsement for a Towing Business may be
   reactivated without charge for the remainder of the license period when
   written evidence of the availability of a substitute towing service storage
   lot is supplied to the Director by the licensee and verified by the Director,
   or his designee.

   411.14. Instead of any criminal sanctions authorized by law, civil fines and
   penalties may be imposed as alternative sanctions for any infraction of these
   regulations.

   411.15. Adjudication of any civil infraction shall be pursuant to the
   Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs Civil Infractions Act of 1985,
   (DC Official Code 2-1801.01 et seq. (2001)).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 522 (January 21, 2005).
