                                  DC REGULATIONS

PSH PROGRAM – UNIT IDENTIFICATION AND ACCEPTANCE (§ 29-2542)

2542.1. Participants in the PSH Housing Program shall accept a unit that
   passes a housing inspection and meets Fair Market Rent standards established
   for the District of Columbia by HUD.

   2542.2. A PSH Program participant shall be assigned one (1) unit in the
   available unit inventory list.  The Program shall consider the participant’s
   stated needs and preferences when assigning the unit to the extent possible
   considering the PSH Program inventory and the housing market.  Participants
   may also find a unit of their choice, as long as such unit passes a housing
   inspection required by the PSH Program and does not exceed HUD Fair Market
   Rent standards for their household size.

   2542.3. To facilitate timely unit identification and entry into the PSH
   Housing Program, the participant shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Make a reasonable effort to complete the housing subsidy program’s
   application or placement requirements.  For purposes of this subsection,
   failure to take tangible steps towards obtaining or supplying items necessary
   to complete the requirements of the program may be considered not making a
   reasonable effort;
   
   
   
   (b)	Make a reasonable effort to meet with the PSH Program’s representative
   in a timely manner to view a unit.  For purposes of this subsection, refusal
   to meet with the Provider’s representative three (3) times without good
   cause shall be considered not making a reasonable effort;
   
   
   
   (c)	After viewing a unit, assist the PSH Housing Program to submit a timely
   and complete application to the landlord; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Accept a unit that meets the HUD Fair Market Rent standards for their
   household size.

   2542.4. If an individual or family fails to make a reasonable effort to
   complete any of the requirements set forth in subsection 2542.3, the PSH
   Program may discontinue the placement process for that individual or family.

   2542.5. The PSH Program shall give written and oral notice to clients of
   discontinuation of the placement process at least fifteen (15) days before the
   effective date of such discontinuation.

   2542.6. The PSH Program’s written notice to an individual or family of
   discontinuation of the placement process shall be on a form prescribed by the
   Department and shall include:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A clear statement of the effective date on which the placement process
   will be discontinued;
   
   
   
   (b)	A clear and detailed statement of the factual basis for the determination
   that the individual or family has failed to make reasonable efforts to meet
   the requirements of subsection 2542.3, including the date or dates upon which
   the determination is based;
   
   
   
   (c)	A reference to the statute, regulation, or Program Rule pursuant to which
   the discontinuation is based;
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement that a reasonable effort by the individual or family to meet
   the requirements of subsection 2542.3 prior to the effective date of
   discontinuation of the placement process shall result in a withdrawal by the
   Program of the Notice of Discontinuation; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A clear and complete statement of the client’s rights to appeal the
   discontinuation through a fair hearing and administrative review, including
   deadlines for instituting the appeal.
   
   
   
   An individual or family for whom the PSH Program has discontinued the
   placement process pursuant to subsection 2542.4 shall not have a right to
   continue the placement process during the appeal.

   2542.7. An individual or family for whom the PSH Program has discontinued the
   placement process pursuant to subsection 2542.4 may resume the placement
   process at any time if ready to accept a unit and the Program has an
   uncommitted housing placement available.  For purposes of this section, an
   available uncommitted housing placement means that the Program has an
   available subsidy and is not currently working with an individual or family
   for whom the subsidy is allocated.
   
   
   
    2542.8	The PSH Program shall not be obligated to provide placement services
   to any individual or family issued two (2) or more Notices of Discontinuation
   of Placement Services.

   2542.9. The PSH Housing Program shall assist any participant, at any time, to
   move to an alternate unit as long as the PSH Program or the participant is
   able to ensure that the participant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Exits the existing lease with the landlord according to the terms of the
   lease or receives the landlord’s written approval to exit the lease without
   financial cost to the Program;
   
   
   
   (b)	Identifies an alternate unit that passes a housing inspection and does not
   exceed the HUD Fair Market Rent standards for their household size;
   
   
   
   (c)	Submits an application to the landlord within the necessary timeframe; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Accepts the alternate unit and provides the PSH Program with all necessary
   information regarding the new unit.

   2542.10. Once housed, if requested by the participant, the PSH Housing Program
   may assist the participant to identify an alternate unit that better meets the
   participant’s needs, to the extent possible, considering the availability of
   units within the PSH Program housing inventory and considering the needs of
   new applicants.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 6438
   (July 23, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice Emergency Rulemaking published
   at 57 DCR 11353 (November 26, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of
   Emergency Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3007 (April 8, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 7442, 7486 (August
   19, 2011).
