                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIAL ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR REFERRAL TO THE LOCAL RENT SUPPLEMENT PROGRAM
&#8211; APPLICATION AND RIGHT TO APPEAL (§ 29-2558)

2558.1. An authorized representative may apply on behalf of the applicant, if
   the applicant provides a written and signed statement stating why the
   applicant cannot apply in person and the name and address of the person
   authorized to act on the applicant’s behalf.

   2558.2. Each application shall be in writing on a form that the Department
   prescribes and signed by the applicant or authorized representative under
   penalty of perjury.  If the applicant is married and living with a spouse,
   both spouses shall sign the application as an applicant unit (hereinafter
   “applicant”).

   2558.3. Upon request by an applicant with a disability, or the authorized
   representative of an applicant with a disability, the Provider shall assist
   the applicant or authorized representative with any aspect of the application
   process necessary to ensure that the applicant with a disability has an equal
   opportunity to submit an application.
   
   
   
   2558.4  	The Department shall provide application forms, and the Provider
   shall accept applications from each applicant who requests assistance.
   
   
   
   2558.5  	At the time of application, each applicant shall be provided with a
   clear, concise, written notice containing the applicant’s rights and
   responsibilities and the Provider’s responsibilities with respect to the
   Local Rent Supplement Program.  The Provider shall request that all
   applicants, personally or through an authorized representative, sign a
   document acknowledging receipt of this notice.

   2558.6. As part of the application process, all applicants, personally or
   through an authorized representative, shall sign a release form authorizing
   the Provider to obtain or verify information necessary to process the
   application.

   2558.7. Each applicant shall cooperate fully in establishing his or her
   eligibility, including the basis of the applicant’s homelessness and shall
   provide, to the extent available and relevant, documentation or collateral
   proof of:
   
   
   
   (a)	Household composition;
   
   
   
   (b)	Employment status and employment history;
   
   
   
   (c)	Education history;
   
   
   
   (d)	Income and assets;
   
   
   
   (e)	Household expenses;
   
   
   
   (f)	Facts and circumstances surrounding homelessness, including rental and
   other relevant housing history;
   
   
   
   (g)	Financial and other assets available or obtainable in the short and long
   term to support housing stability; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Facts and circumstances surrounding financial and other barriers to
   housing stability.

   2558.8. The Provider shall give to each applicant a written request specifying
   the information needed to complete the application, and the Provider shall
   discuss with the applicant how to obtain the information.  The application
   shall be considered complete when all required information is furnished.

   2558.9. The Provider may use, among other things, documents, telephone
   conversations, personal and collateral interviews, reports, correspondence,
   and conferences to verify applicant information.

   2558.10. An application shall be considered abandoned if the applicant has not
   obtained and provided to the Provider the required information for eligibility
   determination within sixty (60) calendar days of the date of application.

   2558.11. If an interested individual or family submits an application and is
   found not to be eligible, the Department or its designee shall provide the
   applicant with a Notice of Denial of Eligibility, which shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	A clear statement of the applicant’s eligibility determination;
   
   
   
   (b)  	A clear and detailed statement of the factual basis of the denial,
   including a reference to the eligibility criteria set forth in § 2557 that
   has not been met;
   
   
   
   (c)  	A clear and complete statement of the client’s right to request a
   reconsideration from the Department or the Department’s designee if he or
   she disagrees with the Department’s or the Department’s designee’s
   decision to deny his or her referral to the Local Rent Supplement Program, or
   if he or she has questions regarding the Department or its designee’s
   decision to deny his or her referral to the Local Rent Supplement Program; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A clear and complete statement of the client’s right to appeal the denial of
   eligibility through a fair hearing and administrative review including the
   appropriate deadlines for instituting the appeal.

   2558.12. If a family issued a Notice of Denial of Eligibility pursuant to §
   2558.11 is successful in their appeal, the family shall be prioritized for
   referral based on the criteria set forth in § 2557.2.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 11631 (August 9, 2013).
