                                  DC REGULATIONS

STI PROGRAM – PRIORITY DETERMINATION AND REFERRAL (§ 29-2527)

2527.1. After determining eligibility for the STI Program, the family intake
   center shall determine an applicant’s priority for a referral to the STI
   Program based on the chronological order of application, and the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Residents of the Department’s family hypothermia and temporary shelter
   programs and the Department’s family transitional housing programs shall
   receive the first priority.  Within this priority group, the second
   prioritizing factor shall be the length of time residing in such programs;
   
   
   
   (b)	Residents of non-DHS housing programs within the Continuum of Care shall
   receive the second priority.  Within this priority group, the second
   prioritizing factor shall be the length of time residing in such programs; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Other significant relevant factors.

   2527.2. For purposes of this section, the chronological order in which
   applications are received shall be the date and time the intake center
   received the applicant’s most recent signed application.  The intake center
   staff shall document receipt of the signed application by date and time
   stamping or manually recording the date and time the signed application is
   received by the intake center.

   2527.3. Upon determination of eligibility and priority determination, the
   central intake center shall provide the household with a written notice of the
   applicant’s eligibility, and priority determination if appropriate, for the
   STI Program, which shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	A clear statement of the applicant’s eligibility determination;
   
   
   
   (b)	A clear and detailed statement of the factual basis of a denial of
   eligibility, if the family is determined not eligible for the STI Program;
   
   
   
   (c)	A reference to the statute, regulation, or Program Rule that is the legal
   basis of a denial, if the family is determined not eligible for the STI
   Program;
   
   
   
   (d)	A clear statement of the applicant’s priority determination pursuant to
   subsection 2527.1;
   
   
   
   (e)	A clear and detailed statement of the factual basis of the applicant’s
   priority determination in accordance with subsection 2527.1;
   
   
   
   (f)	STI Program Fact Sheet setting forth information about the STI Program;
   
   
   
   (g)	A clear and complete statement of the client&#8217;s right to appeal a
   denial of eligibility through fair hearing and administrative review
   proceedings, including the appropriate deadlines for instituting the appeal;
   and
   
   
   
   (h)	A clear and complete statement of the client’s right to a
   reconsideration of the priority determination, including how to request
   reconsideration and the appropriate deadlines for requesting reconsideration.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 6438
   (July 23, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice Emergency Rulemaking published
   at 57 DCR 11353 (November 26, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of
   Emergency Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3007 (April 8, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 7442, 7474 (August
   19, 2011).
