                                  DC REGULATIONS

INTAKE FOR FAMILIES – ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATION (§ 29-2507)

2507.1. To determine eligibility for family shelter, each family seeking
   assistance shall complete an application at a central intake center.  The
   application shall be in writing on a form prescribed by the Department and
   shall be signed by the applicant.

   2507.2. If a family includes more than one (1) head of household, it is not
   necessary for both heads of household to be present at the time of
   application.

   2507.3. A family applicant may be required to provide as part of the
   application the following information necessary to determine the family’s
   general eligibility for shelter or supportive housing:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Housing status and history, including prior receipt of shelter or housing
   services through the Continuum of Care; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Family composition;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Employment status and history; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Income and source of income, including public benefits; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Assets.

   2507.4. Each family applicant shall provide documentation that is reasonably
   available to the applicant in support of the application.

   2507.5. A family applicant shall be allowed up to seven (7) days after
   submission of the application to provide necessary documentation not available
   at the time of application.

   2507.6. If a family applicant is unable to provide necessary documentation
   within seven (7) days after the application, the intake center may either
   extend the time frame for providing the documents based on the particular
   circumstances or waive the requirement for the documentation, provided the
   applicant signs an affidavit containing the necessary information, such as
   residency status, or state of homelessness.

   2507.7. Any applicant who requires assistance with filling out the application
   form may request and shall receive such assistance.
   
   
   
   2507.8 	If a request for assistance is made by an applicant with a disability,
   or by the authorized representative of an applicant with a disability, the
   Provider or the intake center shall assist such applicant or authorized
   representative with any aspect of the application process necessary to ensure
   that the applicant with a disability has an equal opportunity to submit an
   application.

   2507.9. Pursuant to section 2546, a person with a disability may request a
   reasonable modification at any time during the application process.  Requests
   may be oral or in writing.  Oral requests shall be reduced to writing by the
   applicant, intake or Provider staff, or any person identified by the
   individual, and submitted in accordance with the Provider or intake center
   policy and procedure.

   2507.10. Based on the information received from the completed and signed
   application and an intake interview with the applicant, the intake center
   shall make a determination of general eligibility in accordance with section
   2501.  The intake center shall give the applicant written notice of the
   applicant’s general eligibility determination, which shall include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The date and time the family’s signed application was determined to have
   been received by the intake center;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A clear statement of the family’s general eligibility for shelter;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A clear and detailed statement of the factual basis of a denial of
   eligibility, if the family is determined not eligible for shelter;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A reference to the statute, regulation, or Program Rule that is the legal
   basis of the denial, if the family is determined not eligible for shelter; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A clear and complete statement of the client’s right to appeal a denial
   of eligibility through a fair hearing and administrative review, including
   deadlines for instituting the appeal.

   2507.11. No individual or family may be deemed ineligible for services solely
   because the individual or family cannot establish proof of homelessness or
   residency at the time of the individual or family&#8217;s application for
   assistance; however, an eligibility determination for shelter or supportive
   housing may be delayed if an applicant does not provide information sufficient
   to making such determination.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 470, 481 (January 24, 1992); as
   amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR
   6438 (July 23, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice Emergency Rulemaking
   published at 57 DCR 11353 (November 26, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice
   of Emergency Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3007 (April 8, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 7442, 7446 (August
   19, 2011).
