                                  DC REGULATIONS

CLIENT PROPERTY AND STORAGE REQUIREMENTS (§ 29-2520)

Providers of hypothermia and low barrier shelter shall adopt reasonable
   policies regarding client property based on the available space and reasonable
   needs of the clients which shall include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	The amount of belongings a client may bring into the shelter, which shall
   be, at a minimum, two (2) medium size bags or the equivalent;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	Any limitations, based on health and safety considerations, on what clients
   may bring into the shelter;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	Whether lockers or other storage is available, under what conditions, and
   under what conditions a Provider may open, inspect, or remove property;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	The client’s responsibility to manage their property while on the shelter
   premises and any limits on the Provider’s liability for lost, stolen, or
   damaged property; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	The Provider’s policies regarding abandoned property.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Hypothermia and low barrier shelter Providers shall submit the shelter’s
   client property and storage policy to the Department as part of the
   Provider’s program rules for annual approval by the Department.  Providers
   shall give clients notice of these policies as part of the Provider’s
   approved program rules.

   2520.3. Temporary shelter and supportive housing Providers, except Providers
   who provide apartment style shelter and supportive housing, shall provide
   private, secure space for the temporary storage of personal belongings. 
   Provision of temporary storage shall take into consideration the available
   space and reasonable needs of clients.

   2520.4. When a client leaves a temporary shelter or supportive housing
   program, whether the client leaves voluntarily or as a result of a transfer or
   termination, the Provider shall hold any belongings the client does not take
   with them to the new placement for a minimum of seven (7) calendar days
   following the client’s departure, except that when a Provider provides the
   client with moving services, the Provider shall not be required to hold any
   belongings left after the moving service has completed the move.  After seven
   (7) days following the client’s departure (and where no moving services are
   provided), the Provider may dispose of any remaining belongings.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 6438
   (July 23, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice Emergency Rulemaking published
   at 57 DCR 11353 (November 26, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of
   Emergency Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3007 (April 8, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 7442, 7461 (August
   19, 2011).
