                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADA COMPLAINT AND INVESTIGATION PROCEDURES (§ 29-2548)

2548.1. Upon receipt of a complaint, the ADA Coordinator or designee shall
   send a notice and make best efforts to personally communicate with the
   complainant and the entity that is alleged to be in noncompliance within five
   (5) business days of its receipt.  If the complaint is against a subcontractor
   or subgrantee of a Department contractor or grantee, the ADA Coordinator shall
   also send a notice to the contractor or grantee within the same time period.

   2548.2. The complaint shall be reviewed by the ADA Coordinator to determine
   the appropriate method of resolution as follows:
   
   
   
   (a) 	If the complainant is making a reasonable modification request rather
   than a complaint, but has not yet made the request to the appropriate
   Provider, the ADA Coordinator may refer the complainant’s reasonable
   modification request to the Provider for resolution, except when the
   complainant has expressed a reason for not first making the request of the
   Provider and that reason is the basis of the complaint.  The ADA Coordinator
   shall promptly notify both the complainant and the Provider of the referral
   and inform the complainant and the Provider that the ADA Coordinator will
   consider the matter resolved unless the complainant files a new complaint. 
   The Department shall provide monitoring of the resolution of the reasonable
   modification request, as appropriate and required;
   
   
   
   (b)	If the complainant has requested a reasonable modification, but the
   complainant is not satisfied with the Provider’s response, the ADA
   Coordinator shall ascertain the relevant facts and work with the complainant
   and the Provider in an attempt to reach a solution acceptable to both parties.
    If the Provider is a subcontractor or subgrantee of a Department contractor
   or grantee, the ADA Coordinator will work through the Department’s
   contractor or grantee, to the extent possible; and
   
   
   
   (c)	For all other ADA complaints, or if the complainant and the Provider are
   not able to reach a resolution of a reasonable modification request, the ADA
   Coordinator shall review the complaint, determine the appropriate means of
   resolution, including referral to the Department’s Office of Program Review,
   Monitoring, and Investigation (OPRMI) for an investigation of contractor’s
   alleged noncompliance with the ADA.  The ADA Coordinator shall notify the
   Administrator of the Department’s Family Services Administration of each
   referral of an ADA Complaint to OPRMI.

   2548.3. The ADA Coordinator shall make best efforts to reach a resolution of
   the complaint, and issue findings to the complainant, within forty-five (45)
   days, except that for complaints referred for investigation to OPRMI the time
   frame shall be as set forth in subsection 2548.4.

   2548.4. For complaints referred to OPRMI, OPRMI shall complete the
   investigation and issue a report within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
   referral.  The ADA Coordinator and the Director or the Director’s designee
   shall review the OPRMI report and issue findings within fifteen (15) business
   days after receipt of the report.

   2548.5. Findings shall be sent to the complainant, the complainant’s
   representative, if any, the Provider, and the Administrator of the
   Department’s Family Services Administration.  If the Provider is a
   subcontractor or subgrantee of a Department contractor or grantee, the report
   shall also be sent to the contractor or grantee.

   2548.6. If the complainant disagrees with the Department’s findings or
   proposed resolution, the complainant may appeal within fifteen (15) calendar
   days after receiving the Department’s response.  The appeal may be sent to
   the Office of Disability Rights, Attn: Director, 441 4th Street, NW, Suite
   729NWashington, DC 20001.  The Office on Disability Rights shall respond to
   the complainant within fifteen (15) calendar days after consultation with the
   complainant.

   2548.7. No public or private entity that delivers shelter or supportive
   services covered by this Chapter shall retaliate against, coerce, intimidate,
   threaten, or interfere with any individual who files or makes a complaint, or
   requests a reasonable modification, or aids or encourages any other person to
   file or make a complaint or request a reasonable modification.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 6438
   (July 23, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice Emergency Rulemaking published
   at 57 DCR 11353 (November 26, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of
   Emergency Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3007 (April 8, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 7442, 7495 (August
   19, 2011).
