                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROVIDER STANDARDS FOR SHELTER AND SUPPORTIVE HOUSING (§ 29-2515)

All Providers of shelter and supportive housing shall meet the requirements of
   this section, as well as any additional requirements specific to the type of
   program provided as set forth elsewhere in this chapter.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall ensure staff members are appropriately trained, qualified, and
   supervised.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall maintain safe, clean, and sanitary facilities that meet all
   applicable District health, sanitation, fire, building, housing, and zoning
   codes.  If it is not the responsibility of the Provider to correct an
   identified deficiency, the Provider shall promptly report to the Department or
   the appropriate agency the deficiency for corrective action, according to the
   applicable procedures.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers in all types of shelter and supportive housing shall assist clients
   to prepare for living in permanent housing, as deemed appropriate by the
   Provider and the client.  Providers shall support the client’s progress
   toward achieving goals set forth in the client’s Service Plan, including the
   review of any Provider policies and procedures that are inconsistent with such
   goals.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   In accordance with a client’s Service Plan and the type of shelter or
   supportive housing, Providers shall collaborate and coordinate with other
   service Providers to meet the client’s needs, as deemed appropriate by the
   Provider and the client.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall receive and utilize client input and feedback for the purpose
   of evaluating and improving the Provider’s services.  At a minimum,
   Providers shall hold regularly scheduled meetings at least once monthly with
   staff and clients to provide an open forum for clients to provide feedback to
   Providers and foster on-going communication between clients and staff.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall establish procedures for the Provider’s internal complaint
   procedures and, in addition to any other method, shall give notice to clients
   of these procedures through the Provider’s approved program rules.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall provide each client with printed information, distributed by
   the Department, describing the available services within the Continuum of
   Care, or other meaningful and up-to-date access to services information.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Client Advocates, and any other shelter or supportive housing case management
   staff shall be trained on the available services information and shall discuss
   with each client as applicable.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Site-based Providers shall provide to clients information regarding laundry
   facilities in close proximity to the shelter.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall ensure that all clients are informed of services for which
   they may be eligible.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall ensure the delivery of culturally competent services and
   provide language assistance for clients with limited English proficiency.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall provide services free from discrimination on the basis of
   race, color, religion, national origin, language, culture, sex, age, marital
   status, personal appearance, sexual orientation, gender identity or
   expression, familial status, family responsibilities, matriculation, political
   affiliation, genetic information, disability, and source of income, and in
   accordance with the Human Rights Act of 1977, effective December 13, 1977
   (D.C. Law 2-38; D.C. Official Code §§ 2-1401, et seq. (2007 Repl.; 2011
   Supp.)), the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, approved July 26, 1990
   (104 Stat. 328; 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101, et seq.), the Rehabilitation Act of
   1973, approved August 7, 1998 (112 Stat. 1095; 29 U.S.C. §§ 701, et seq.),
   and Title II of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, approved July 2, 1964 (78 Stat.
   243; 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000a, et seq.).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall provide reasonable modifications to policies, practices, and
   procedures in accordance with section 2546 when the modifications are
   necessary to avoid discrimination on the basis of disability, unless the
   Provider demonstrates that making the modifications would fundamentally alter
   the nature of the services.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall ensure confidential treatment of the personal, social, legal,
   financial, and medical records and information related to a client or any
   member of a client’s family, whether obtained from the client or from any
   other source, consistent with the confidentiality requirements of District and
   federal law.  Providers shall ensure that all staff and volunteers are
   properly trained in these confidentiality requirements.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall notify all applicants and clients that information about the
   client’s receipt of services shall be included in the District of Columbia
   Homeless Management Information System (HMIS) for purposes of program
   administration and evaluation, and, that such information shall be maintained
   in a confidential manner consistent with the requirements of District and
   federal law.  Domestic violence shelters and housing programs subject to the
   Violence Against Women and the Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of
   2005, effective January 5, 2006 (Pub. L. No. 109-162; 119 Stat. 2160), shall
   notify all applicants and clients that the Provider shall only provide in the
   aggregate non personally identifying demographic information regarding
   services to their clients and non personally identifying demographic
   information to HMIS.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall establish Program Rules related to the specific goals of their
   program.  Program Rules shall include:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any applicable special eligibility requirements for the purpose of limiting
   entry into the program to individuals or families exhibiting the specific
   challenges that the program is designed to address, except in severe weather
   shelter and low barrier shelter;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Client responsibilities, including those listed in section 2514;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Client rights, including those listed in section 2512, and where applicable,
   section 2513;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The internal complaint procedures established by the Provider for the purpose
   of providing the client with an opportunity to promptly resolve complaints;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Procedures by which an individual with a disability may request a reasonable
   modification pursuant to section 2546;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The procedures and notice requirements of any internal mediation program
   established by the Provider;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program’s client property and storage policy and any procedures;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Sanctions that a Provider may apply to clients who are in violation of the
   Program Rules.  The list of sanctions shall include transfer, suspension, and
   termination as allowed by this chapter and any other sanctions the program may
   apply prior to transfer, suspension, or termination.  Providers shall also
   state, as applicable, the basis for applying each sanction listed, the
   duration of the sanction, and how the client may have the sanction lifted; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The client’s rights of appeal through a fair hearing and administrative
   review, including the appropriate deadlines for instituting the appeal.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall submit their Program Rules to the Department for approval:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	Annually with any proposed changes clearly identified; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	Whenever a Provider seeks to change its eligibility criteria, the rules of
   its internal grievance or mediation procedures, or its program sanctions.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   No Provider may enforce any provision within its Program Rules, other than
   those requirements or protections specifically enumerated by this Chapter,
   unless the Department has approved the Program Rules in accordance with this
   section.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall give prompt and effective notice of their Program Rules to
   clients by:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	Posting a copy of their Program Rules on the Provider&#8217;s premises in a
   location easily accessible to clients and visitors; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    	Giving every new client written notice of the Provider&#8217;s Program
   Rules, and reading and explaining the written notice to the client.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The client and the Provider staff member delivering the notice pursuant to
   subsection 2515.20(b) shall both sign a statement acknowledging the
   client&#8217;s receipt of the notice and indicating the client&#8217;s
   awareness, understanding, and acceptance of the Program Rules.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Providers shall establish procedures to provide effective notice of the
   Program Rules to clients with special needs, including those who may have
   intellectual or mental disabilities, or who may have difficulty reading or
   have limited English proficiency.

   2515.23. Providers shall submit an Unusual Incident Report to the Department
   for 				investigation or review, according to the Department’s Unusual
   Incident Report 			policy and procedures.  Providers shall complete the
   Unusual Incident Report 			form prescribed by the Department and include,
   where applicable, any actions or 			resolution taken to ameliorate the unusual
   incident
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 6438
   (July 23, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice Emergency Rulemaking published
   at 57 DCR 11353 (November 26, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of
   Emergency Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3007 (April 8, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 7442, 7455 (August
   19, 2011).
