                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY TRANSFER, SUSPENSION, OR TERMINATION OF INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES FROM
SHELTER AND SUPPORTIVE HOUSING (§ 29-2524)

2524.1. A Provider may immediately transfer, suspend, or terminate a client,
   without providing prior written notice of the action, whenever a client
   presents an imminent threat to the health or safety of the client or any other
   person on a Provider’s premises.  For purposes of this section, imminent
   threat to the health or safety means an act or credible threat of violence on
   the premises of a shelter or supportive housing facility.

   2524.2. Providers may not use the emergency transfer, suspension, or
   termination authority provided under this section in any way that interferes
   with a client’s tenancy rights under an agreement governed by title 14 of
   the District of Columbia Municipal Regulations.

   2524.3. The Provider shall consider the severity of the act or acts leading to
   the imminent threat when deciding whether to proceed with an emergency
   transfer, suspension, or termination of the client.  Providers are encouraged,
   when appropriate, to try to diffuse the situation by such means as separation,
   mediation, or non-emergency transfer, suspension, or termination, if feasible,
   as an alternative to or prior to taking an emergency action.

   2524.4. If necessary to meet the terms of a protective order, the client
   against whom another party has a protective order may be transferred under the
   emergency transfer provisions of this section.

   2524.5. Whenever a Provider transfers, suspends, or terminates a client
   pursuant to the emergency provisions of this section, the Provider shall
   endeavor to provide the client with written notice.

   2524.6. If it is not possible or safe to provide written notice at the time of
   the action, a subsequent written notice shall be provided to the client within
   fifteen (15) days, or, if the client’s whereabouts are unknown, upon request
   within ninety (90) days after the emergency action taken.

   2524.7. Written notice to the client of an emergency transfer, suspension, or
   termination shall include:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A clear statement of the emergency action;
   
   
   
   (b)	A clear and detailed statement of the factual basis for the emergency
   action, including the date or dates on which the basis or bases for the
   emergency action occurred;
   
   
   
   (c)	A reference to the statute or regulation pursuant to which the emergency
   action is being implemented;
   
   
   
   (d)	A clear and complete statement of the client’s rights to appeal the
   emergency action through a fair hearing and administrative review, including
   deadlines for instituting the appeal;
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement that no client transferred, suspended, or terminated because
   of an imminent threat to health or safety shall have the right to request
   mediation of the action or to continue to receive shelter or supportive
   housing services without change pending appeal; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The name and contact information of the designated Department employee
   responsible for reviewing the proposed emergency action.

   2524.8. The Provider shall immediately notify the Department of the emergency
   action by sending a copy of the written notice of emergency transfer,
   suspension, or termination to the designated Department employee.  For
   purposes of this subsection, “immediately” shall mean as soon as
   reasonably possible after the incident.  At a minimum, the Provider, in its
   notification to the Department, shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)  	The identity of the client who was transferred, suspended, or terminated
   on an emergency basis;
   
   
   
   (b)  	The nature, date, and time of the emergency action taken by the
   Provider, including the name of the staff person present when the underlying
   incident occurred or who is otherwise most knowledgeable of the circumstances
   leading to the emergency action;
   
   
   
   (c)  	The Provider staff member authorizing the emergency transfer,
   suspension, or termination; and
   
   
   
   (d)  	The specific act or acts leading to the emergency transfer, suspension,
   or termination.

   2524.9. The Department shall issue a written finding of whether the emergency
   action complies with the statutory requirements of D.C. Official Code §
   4-754.38 (2008 Repl.) within twenty-four (24) hours of receiving notification
   from a Provider of an emergency transfer, suspension, or termination.

   2524.10. In reaching its finding, the Department may make a brief inquiry into
   the facts and circumstances of the emergency action, including interviews with
   any party, if additional details or clarifications are needed.  The
   requirement that a decision be made within twenty-four (24) hours of receipt
   of the notice of emergency transfer, suspension, or termination, however,
   precludes a comprehensive fact-finding or inquiry.

   2524.11. The Department shall issue its written finding on a Emergency Action
   Compliance Finding form and send it to the Provider and to the client or
   client representative, if requested, by facsimile, electronic mail, or other
   immediate form of transmission.

   2524.12. The Provider shall deliver or attempt to deliver a copy of the
   Emergency Action Compliance Finding form to the client as soon as reasonably
   possible after receipt of the form from the Department.  If the client’s
   whereabouts are unknown, the Provider shall retain a copy of the Emergency
   Action Compliance Finding form and deliver it to the client if and when the
   opportunity arises.

   2524.13. The Provider shall document in the client’s file its delivery or
   its attempt at delivery of the Emergency Action Compliance Finding form to the
   client.

   2524.14. If the Department makes a finding that the emergency action complies
   with D.C. Official Code § 4-754.38 (2008 Repl.), the Provider’s decision
   will stand, subject to appeal by the client through the fair hearing process.

   2524.15. If the Department makes a finding that the emergency action does not
   comply with D.C. Official Code § 4-754.38 (2008 Repl.), the Provider shall
   immediately reinstate the client’s access to services.  The Provider shall 
   promptly notify the Department that the client was reinstated to services by
   completing the appropriate section of the Emergency Action Compliance Finding
   form and sending a copy to the Department as soon as practicable, but no later
   than twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of the Department’s finding.

   2524.16. The Provider shall make every reasonable effort to contact the client
   regarding reinstatement to enable the client to have shelter or housing at the
   earliest possible time.

   2524.17. The client shall make every reasonable effort to stay in touch with
   the Provider pending the Department’s finding, in order to be available to
   receive the Department’s finding and notification of reinstatement, should
   the Department find the action is not in compliance.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 6438
   (July 23, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice Emergency Rulemaking published
   at 57 DCR 11353 (November 26, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of
   Emergency Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3007 (April 8, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 7442, 7470 (August
   19, 2011).
