                                  DC REGULATIONS

THE DEPARTMENTS HOUSING SUBSIDY PROGRAM FOR PSH PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS (§
29-2540)

2540.1. The Department’s Housing Subsidy Program for PSH Program
   participants (PSH Housing Program) shall consist of rental and utility
   assistance (hereinafter “housing cost”), household housing cost
   contribution, unit identification assistance, and unit inspection.

   2540.2. Each participant household shall contribute toward their housing cost
   in the amount of thirty percent (30%) of their adjusted annual income, as
   determined in accordance with the DCHA Housing Choice Voucher Program
   regulations found at 14 DCMR § 6200.

   2540.3. The PSH Housing Program shall pay the difference between the
   household’s housing cost contribution and the cost of housing.  For purposes
   of this section, the cost of housing shall include the cost of utilities, the
   relative share of which shall be determined as set forth in the DCHA Housing
   Choice Voucher Program regulations found at 14 DCMR § 6200.

   2540.4. To determine the individual’s or family’s housing cost
   contribution, the PSH Program participant may be required to provide or update
   the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Employment status and history;
   
   
   
   (b)	Income and source of income, including public benefits;
   
   (c)	Assets; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any other information relevant to determining security deposit, rental
   assistance, moving, move-in, or other applicable expenses needed to obtain
   housing.

   2540.5. Upon completion of the household’s housing contribution
   determination, the PSH Housing Program shall provide the household with
   written notice of the housing assistance determination, which shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	A clear statement of the maximum rental costs for which the household
   qualifies pursuant to the United States Department of Housing and Urban
   Development (HUD) Fair Market Rent standards for their household size;
   
   
   
   (b)	A clear statement of the household’s housing cost contribution for which
   they will be responsible and the computation of how the household’s housing
   cost contribution was determined;
   
   
   
   (c)	A clear and detailed statement of the amount the PSH Housing Program shall
   provide in housing assistance;
   
   
   
   (d)	A clear and detailed statement of how the utilities will be paid, and any
   responsibility that the household will have for utilities; and
   
   
   
   (e) 	A clear and complete statement of the household’s right to a
   reconsideration of the determination of the household’s housing cost
   contribution by the Department or the Department’s designee , including the
   appropriate deadlines for instituting the request for reconsideration.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 6438
   (July 23, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice Emergency Rulemaking published
   at 57 DCR 11353 (November 26, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of
   Emergency Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3007 (April 8, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 7442, 7485 (August
   19, 2011).
