                                  DC REGULATIONS

TERMINATION OF INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES FROM SHELTER AND SUPPORTIVE HOUSING (§
29-2523)

2523.1. A Provider may terminate delivery of services to a client only when:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Provider documents that it has considered suspending the client in
   accordance with section 2522, or, has made a reasonable effort, in light of
   the severity of the act or acts leading to the termination, to transfer the
   client in accordance with section 2521;
   
   
   
   		(b)  	The client:
   
   
   
   (1)  	Possesses a weapon on the Provider’s premises;
   
   
   
   			(2)  	Possesses or sells illegal drugs on the Provider’s premises;
   
   
   
   			(3)  	Assaults or batters any person on the Provider’s premises;
   
   
   
   (4)  	Endangers the client’s own safety or the safety of others on the
   Provider’s premises;
   
   
   
   (5)  	Intentionally or maliciously vandalizes, destroys, or steals the
   property of any person on the Provider’s premises;
   
   
   
   (6)  	Fails to accept an offer of appropriate permanent housing or supportive
   housing that better serves the client’s needs after having been offered two
   (2) appropriate permanent or supportive housing opportunities; or
   
   
   
   (7)  	Knowingly engages in repeated violations of a Provider’s Program
   Rules; and
   
   
   
   (c)	In the case of terminations pursuant to subparagraphs (b)(6) and (b)(7) of
   this subsection, the Provider has made reasonable efforts to help the client
   overcome obstacles to obtaining permanent housing.
   
   
   
   (d)	For purposes of this subsection, reasonable efforts to transfer shall be
   satisfied when the Provider, with the client’s participation and input if
   possible, in light of the severity of the act or acts leading to termination:
   
   
   
   (1)	Determines what type of program or programs constitutes an appropriate
   transfer;
   
   
   
   (2)	Identifies the programs that offer such programs;
   
   
   
   (3)	Determines, either through contacting a central transfer coordinator or by
   contacting the programs directly, which of the identified programs have
   available placements; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Offers to the client the transfer options that the Provider has identified
   or implements transfer to an appropriate placement.
   
   
   
   (e)	For purposes of paragraph (d), the phrase “severity of the act or
   acts” means the degree of interference the continuing presence of the client
   may have, as determined by the Provider, with other clients’ enjoyment of
   rights or on the Provider’s ability to meet the standards by which services
   are to be delivered to other clients.

   2523.2. A Provider shall give written and oral notice to clients of their
   termination from services at least fifteen (15) days before the effective date
   of the termination.

   2523.3. Prior to terminating a client for consecutive unapproved overnight
   absences totaling more than seventy-two (72) hours pursuant to subsection
   2523.1(b)(7), the Provider shall make reasonable efforts to locate the client,
   including using available contact information.  If the absence remains
   unexplained, the Provider may proceed with termination and provide notice
   under this section to the extent feasible, which may include posting to the
   client’s unit or making the notice available to the person upon their return
   to the program.

   2523.4. A Provider’s written notice to a client of his or her termination
   shall include:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A clear statement of the effective date of the termination;
   
   
   
   (b)	A clear and detailed statement of the factual basis for the termination,
   including the date or dates on which the basis or bases for the termination
   occurred;
   
   
   
   (c)	A reference to the statute, regulation, or Program Rule pursuant to which
   the termination is being implemented;
   
   
   
   (d)	A clear and complete statement of the client’s rights to appeal the
   termination through a fair hearing and administrative review, including
   deadlines for instituting the appeal; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement of the client’s right to continuation of shelter or
   supportive housing services pending the outcome of any fair hearing requested
   within fifteen (15) days after receipt of written notice of a termination.

   2523.5. When a Provider terminates an individual or family from a program, the
   termination applies only to the specific program and location from which the
   individual or family is terminated, except for scattered site programs that
   have no common location.  The individual or family may seek services from
   other Providers within the Continuum of Care, as well as from other locations
   or programs offered by the Provider of the program from which they were
   terminated.

   2523.6. Providers may not use the termination authority provided under this
   section in any way that interferes with a client’s tenancy rights under an
   agreement governed by title 14 of the District of Columbia Municipal
   Regulations.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 6438
   (July 23, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice Emergency Rulemaking published
   at 57 DCR 11353 (November 26, 2010)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of
   Emergency Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3007 (April 8, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 7442, 7467 (August
   19, 2011).
