                                  DC REGULATIONS

SELECTING CONTRACT TYPES (ยง 27-2401)

2401.1. When procurement is by competitive sealed bids, the contracting
   officer shall use either a firm-fixed-price contract or a fixed-price contract
   with economic price adjustment. The type of contract to be used shall be
   determined prior to solicitation, and the solicitation shall inform bidders of
   the type of contract that will be used.

   2401.2. Except when procurement is by competitive sealed bids under ยง 2401.1,
   the contracting officer may use any type of contract approved for use under
   this chapter, or combination of types, that will promote the best interests of
   the District.

   2401.3. The contracting officer shall use a firm-fixed-price contract when the
   risk involved is minimal (or can be predicted with an acceptable degree of
   certainty) and when fair and reasonable prices can be established. However, if
   a reasonable basis for firm-fixed pricing does not exist, the contracting
   officer may consider other contract types, or combination of types, that will
   appropriately link profit to contractor performance, except as limited by ยง
   2401.1.

   2401.4. Except as limited in ยง 2401.1, when deciding which contract type (or
   combination of types) to use, the contracting officer shall give preference to
   contract types in the following order:
   
   
   
   (a)	Fixed-price;
   
   
   
   (b)	Fixed-price incentive;
   
   
   
   (c)	Cost-plus-incentive-fee;
   
   
   
   (d)	Cost-plus-fixed-fee;
   
   
   
   (e)	Cost-reimbursement; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Other types.

   2401.5. The contracting officer shall avoid continued use of a
   cost-reimbursement or time-and-materials contract after experience provides a
   basis for firmer pricing.

   2401.6. The contracting officer shall include documentation in each contract
   file to show why the particular contract type was selected, except for the
   following procurements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Small purchases other than cost-reimbursement contracts; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Repetitive purchases on a firm-fixed-price basis.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1554 (February 26, 1988).
