                                  DC REGULATIONS

TERM CONTRACTS (ยง 27-2416)

2416.1. The contracting officer may use a term contract (either a requirements
   contract or an indefinite-quantity contract) when the exact quantities of
   goods or services are not known at the time of contract award. Term contracts
   shall be subject to the provisions of this section and ยง2103 of chapter 21 of
   this title.

   2416.2. A term contract may also specify maximum or minimum quantities that
   the District may order under each individual order and the maximum that the
   District may order during a specified period of time.

   2416.3. The contracting officer may use a requirements contract when the
   contracting officer anticipates recurring requirements but cannot predetermine
   the precise quantities of goods or services that designated District agencies
   will need during a definite period.

   2416.4. Each agency designated in a requirements contract shall be required to
   fill all actual purchase requirements for the specific goods or services from
   the requirements contract.

   2416.5. The contracting officer shall include the following in each contract
   and solicitation for a requirements contract:
   
   
   
   (a)	A realistic estimate of the total quantity that will be ordered, based on
   the most current information available; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A clause, approved by the Director, stating that the estimate is not a
   representation to a bidder, offeror, or contractor that the estimated quantity
   will actually be required or ordered, or that conditions affecting the
   requirements will be stable or normal.

   2416.6. If feasible, a requirements contract shall state the maximum limit of
   the contractor&#8217;s obligation to deliver and the District&#8217;s
   obligation to order.

   2416.7. For requirements contracts, the contracting officer shall execute the
   contract without the obligation of funds. Funds shall be obligated by each
   agency at the time orders are issued under the contract.

   2416.8. The agency contracting officer executing orders under a requirements
   contract shall obligate funds when each individual order is issued. An agency
   contracting officer may order from a requirements contract within the limits
   of the requesting agency&#8217;s budget authority for the items or services
   covered by the contract, but without regard to the limits of the
   agency&#8217;s contracting authority.

   2416.9. The contracting officer may use an indefinite-quantity contract when
   the contracting officer cannot predetermine, above a specified minimum, the
   precise quantity of goods or services that will be required during the
   contract period, and the contracting officer determines that it is inadvisable
   to commit the District for more than a minimum quantity.

   2416.10. An indefinite-quantity contract shall require the District to order
   and the contractor to furnish at least the stated minimum quantity of goods or
   services. The contractor shall also be required to furnish, if and as ordered,
   any additional quantities, not to exceed a stated maximum.

   2416.11. For indefinite-quantity contracts, the contracting officer shall
   ensure that each agency listed as a using agency on the contract obligates the
   amount of budget authority needed to cover the agency&#8217;s minimum required
   order under the contract.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1564 (February 26, 1988).
