                                  DC REGULATIONS

COST-REIMBURSEMENT CONTRACTS (ยง 27-2405)

2405.1. The contracting officer shall use a cost-reimbursement contract only
   when uncertainties involved in contract performance do not permit costs to be
   estimated with sufficient accuracy to use any type of fixed-price contract.

   2405.2. The contracting officer may use a cost-reimbursement contract only
   when the following circumstances apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The contractor&#8217;s accounting system is adequate for determining costs
   applicable to the contract;
   
   
   
   (b)	Appropriate District surveillance during performance will provide
   reasonable assurance that efficient methods and effective cost controls are
   used; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The contracting officer determines, in writing, that the use of a
   cost-reimbursement type contract is likely to be less costly than any other
   type, or it is impractical to obtain goods or services of the kind or quality
   required without the use of this contract type.

   2405.3. Each cost-reimbursement contract shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A clause, approved by the Director, indicating that only those costs
   determined by the contracting officer to be reasonable, in accordance with
   chapter 33 of this title, will be reimbursable; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A clause, approved by the Director, establishing a stated price ceiling.

   2405.4. The contracting officer may use a cost contract for facilities
   contracts.

   2405.5. The contracting officer may use a cost-sharing contract when the
   contractor agrees to absorb a portion of the costs, in the expectation of
   substantial compensating benefits.

   2405.6. The contracting officer may use a cost-plus-incentive-fee contract or
   cost-plus-award fee contract in accordance with ยง2406.

   2405.7. The contracting officer may use a cost-plus-fixed-fee contract when
   contracting for efforts that might otherwise present too great a risk to the
   contractor, such as when the contract is for a study and the level of effort
   is unknown. The contract shall include a clause, approved by the Director,
   setting a maximum allowable fee.

   2405.8. A cost-plus-fixed-fee contract may be in either a completion form or
   term form. When using the completion form, the contracting officer shall
   describe the scope of work by stating a definite goal or target and specifying
   an end product. When using the term form, the contracting officer shall
   describe the scope of work in general terms and obligate the contractor to
   devote a specified level of effort for a stated time period.

   2405.9. When using a cost-plus-fixed-fee contract, the completion form shall
   be preferred over the term form whenever the work, or specific milestones for
   the work, can be defined well enough to permit development of estimates within
   which the contractor can be expected to complete the work. The term form shall
   not be used unless the contractor is obligated by the contract to provide a
   specific level of effort within a definite time period.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1558 (February 26, 1988).
