                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 27-2499)

2499.1. When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Commercial-type products &#8211; a product such as an item, material,
   component, subsystem or system, sold or traded to the general public in the
   course of normal business operations at prices based on established catalog or
   market prices.
   
   
   
   Cost &#8211; the amount paid or charged for something. Cost does not include
   the contractor&#8217;s profit.
   
   
   
   Cost contract &#8211; a cost-reimbursement contract in which the contractor
   receives no fee.
   
   
   
   Cost-plus-award-fee contract &#8211; a cost-reimbursement type contract that
   provides for a fee consisting of an amount fixed at the beginning of the
   contract and potential award of additional fee amounts based upon a judgmental
   evaluation by the contracting officer, sufficient to provide motivation for
   excellence in contract performance.
   
   
   
   Cost-plus-fixed-fee contract &#8211; a cost-reimbursement type contract which
   provides for the payment of a fixed fee to the contractor. The fixed fee, once
   negotiated, does not vary with actual cost, but may be adjusted as a result of
   any subsequent changes in the work or services to be performed under the
   contract.
   
   
   
   Cost-plus-incentive-fee contract &#8211; a cost-reimbursement type contract
   that provides for an initially negotiated fee to be adjusted later by a
   formula based on the relationship of total allowable costs to total target
   costs. After performance of the contract, the fee payable to the contractor is
   determined in accordance with a negotiated formula.
   
   
   
   Cost-reimbursement contract &#8211; a contract which provides for payment of
   allowable costs incurred in the performance of a contract, to the extent
   prescribed in the contract. This type of contract establishes an estimate of
   total cost for the purpose of obligating funds, and establishes a ceiling
   which the contractor may not exceed (except at its own risk) without prior
   approval of, or subsequent ratification by, the contracting officer.
   
   
   
   Cost-sharing contract &#8211; a cost-reimbursement type contract in which the
   contractor receives no fee and is reimbursed only for an agreed upon portion
   of its allowable costs.
   
   
   
   Definite-quantity contract &#8211; a contract that provides for delivery of a
   definite quantity of specific goods or services for a fixed period, with
   deliveries to be scheduled at designated locations.
   
   
   
   Definitive contract &#8211; the contract executed pursuant to letter contract
   commitment.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the Office of Contracting and Procurement or
   the District of Columbia Chief Procurement Officer.
   
   
   
   Firm-fixed-price contract &#8211; a fixed-price contract that provides for a
   price that is not subject to any adjustment of the basis of the
   contractor&#8217;s cost experience in performing the contract. This type of
   contract places maximum risk and full responsibility for all costs and
   resulting profit or loss upon the contractor, and provides maximum incentive
   for the contractor to control cost and perform effectively.
   
   
   
   Fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment &#8211; a fixed-price
   contract that provides for the upward and downward revision of the stated
   contract price upon the occurrence of certain contingencies that are
   specifically defined in the contract.
   
   
   
   Fixed-price incentive contract &#8211; a fixed-price type contract that
   provides for adjusting profit and establishing the final contract price by a
   formula based on the relationship of final negotiated total costs to total
   target costs. After performance of the contract, the final cost is negotiated
   and the final contract price is then established in accordance with the
   formula.
   
   
   
   Incentive contract &#8211; a fixed-price or cost-reimbursement type contract
   which provides for relating the amount of profit or fee payable under the
   contract with the contractor&#8217;s performance in order to obtain specific
   procurement objectives.
   
   
   
   Indefinite-quantity contract &#8211; a contract that provides for an
   indefinite quantity, within written stated limits, of specific goods or
   services to be furnished during a fixed period, with deliveries to be
   scheduled by placing orders with the contractor. The contract requires the
   District to order and the contractor to furnish at least a stated minimum of
   goods or services.
   
   
   
   Labor-hour contract &#8211; a contract that is a variant of the
   time-and-materials type contract differing only in that materials are not
   supplied by the contractor.
   
   
   
   Letter contract &#8211; a written preliminary contractual instrument that
   authorizes the contractor to begin immediately manufacturing or delivering
   goods or performing services. A letter contract is always associated with a
   definitive contract, and a letter contract by itself cannot be the sole
   document used for a complete procurement.
   
   
   
   Maximum liability &#8211; the amount, not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
   overall contract price ceiling, obligated by the letter contract over which
   the District cannot be liable if the letter contract is terminated.
   
   
   
   Price &#8211; the amount the District anticipates it will pay the contractor
   for full performance under the terms of a contract, including costs and
   profit.
   
   
   
   Price ceiling &#8211; an amount established during negotiations or at the
   discretion of the contracting officer which constitutes the maximum that may
   be paid to the contractor for performance of a contract.
   
   
   
   Prospective price redetermination &#8211; a contract type which provides for a
   firm-fixed-price for an initial period of contract deliveries or performance
   and for a redetermination of the price for subsequent periods of performance
   at a stated time or times during performance.
   
   
   
   Requirements contract- a contract that provides for the filling of all actual
   purchase requirements of designated District agencies for specific goods or
   services during a specified contract period, with deliveries to be scheduled
   by placing orders with the contractor as required.
   
   
   
   Target price &#8211; an amount established by the contracting officer during
   negotiations to encourage the contractor to control contract costs. The
   contractor&#8217;s final profit varies inversely with the final cost of the
   contract.
   
   
   
   Term contract &#8211; a requirements contract or an indefinite-quantity
   contract.
   
   
   
   Time-and-materials contract &#8211; a type of contract that provides for the
   procurement of goods or services on the basis of direct labor hours at
   specified fixed hourly rates (which include wages, overhead, general and
   administrative expenses, and profit) and material at cost.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1569 (February 26, 1988).
