                                  DC REGULATIONS

FIXED-PRICE CONTRACTS WITH ECONOMIC PRICE ADJUSTMENTS (ยง 27-2403)

2403.1. The contracting officer shall not use a fixed-price contract with
   economic price adjustment unless the contracting officer determines that it is
   necessary to protect the contractor and the District against significant
   fluctuations in labor or material costs, or to provide for contract price
   adjustment in the event of changes in the contractor&#8217;s established
   prices.

   2403.2. A fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment shall provide
   for upward and downward revision of the stated contract price upon the
   occurrence of certain contingencies that are specifically defined in the
   contract.

   2403.3. An economic price adjustment may be one (1) of the following general
   types:
   
   
   
   (a)	Adjustment based on increases or decreases from an agreed-upon level in
   published or otherwise established prices of specific items or the contract
   end items;
   
   
   
   (b)	Adjustment based on increases or decreases in specified costs of labor or
   material that the contractor actually experiences during contract performance;
   or
   
   
   
   (c)	Adjustment based on increases or decreases in labor or material cost
   standards or indexes that are specifically identified in the contract.

   2403.4. For use of economic price adjustments in procurements by competitive
   sealed bids, the contracting officer shall follow the procedures set forth in
   ยง1542 of chapter 15 of this title.

   2403.5. The contracting officer may use a fixed-price contract with economic
   price adjustment when the following factors are applicable:
   
   
   
   (a)	There is serious doubt concerning the stability of market or labor
   conditions that will exist during an extended period of contract performance;
   and
   
   
   
   (b)	Contingencies that would otherwise be included in the contract price can
   be identified and covered separately in the contract.

   2403.6. Price adjustments based on established catalog prices shall be
   restricted to industry-wide contingencies. Industry-wide contingencies shall
   be those affecting a particular industry as a whole, and shall not depend upon
   circumstances within the contractor&#8217;s control.

   2403.7. Price adjustments based on labor and material costs shall be limited
   to contingencies beyond the contractor&#8217;s control.

   2403.8. When establishing the base level from which adjustment will be made,
   the contracting officer shall ensure that contingency allowances are not
   duplicated by inclusion in both the base price and the adjustment requested by
   the contractor under the economic price adjustment clause approved by the
   Director.

   2403.9. In contracts that do not require submission of cost or pricing data,
   the contracting officer shall obtain adequate information to establish the
   base level from which adjustment will be made and may require verification of
   data submitted.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1556 (February 26, 1988).
