                                  DC REGULATIONS

FIXED-PRICE INCENTIVE CONTRACTS (ยง 27-2408)

2408.1. A fixed-price incentive contract may be used when the following
   factors apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	A firm-fixed-price contract is not suitable;
   
   
   
   (b)	The nature of the goods or services being procured and other circumstances
   of the procurement are such that the contractor&#8217;s assumption of a degree
   of cost responsibility will provide a positive profit incentive for effective
   cost control and performance;
   
   
   
   (c)	If the contract also includes incentives on technical performance or
   delivery, the performance requirements provide a reasonable opportunity for
   the incentives to have a meaningful impact on the contractor&#8217;s
   management of the work;
   
   
   
   (d)	The contractor&#8217;s accounting system is adequate for providing data
   for negotiating firm targets and a realistic profit adjustment formula, as
   well as later negotiation of final costs; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Adequate cost or pricing information for establishing a reasonable firm
   target is reasonably expected to be available at the time of initial contract
   negotiations.

   2408.2. A fixed-price incentive contract shall be used only when the
   contracting officer determines that this type of contract would be less costly
   than any other type or that it is impractical to obtain goods or services of
   the kind or quality required without the use of this contract type.

   2408.3. A fixed-price incentive contract with a firm target shall specify a
   target cost, a target profit, a price ceiling (but not a profit ceiling or
   floor), and a profit adjustment formula. These elements shall be negotiated at
   the outset. The formula shall have the following results:
   
   
   
   (a)	When the final cost is less than the target cost, application of the
   formula will result in a final profit greater than the target profit;
   
   
   
   (b)	When the final cost is more than the target cost, application of the
   formula will result in a final profit less than the target profit, or a net
   loss; or
   
   
   
   (c)	If the final negotiated cost exceeds the price ceiling, the contractor
   will absorb the difference as a loss.

   2408.4. In a fixed-price incentive contract with a firm target, the price
   ceiling shall be the maximum that may be paid to the contractor, except for
   any adjustment under other contract clauses.

   2408.5. When the contractor completes performance, the contracting officer and
   the contractor shall negotiate the final cost, and establish the final price
   by applying the formula.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1561 (February 26, 1988).
