                                  DC REGULATIONS

TIME-AND-MATERIALS CONTRACTS (ยง 27-2420)

2420.1. A time-and-materials contract may be used only after the contracting
   officer determines in writing that no other type of contract is suitable, and
   only if the contract includes a ceiling price that the contractor exceeds at
   its own risk.

   2420.2. The contracting officer shall document the contract file to justify
   the reasons for and the amount of any subsequent change in the ceiling price.

   2420.3. A time-and-materials contract may be used only when it is not possible
   at the time of executing the contract to estimate accurately the extent or
   duration of the work or to anticipate costs with any reasonable degree of
   confidence.

   2420.4. A time-and-materials contract shall include direct labor hours at
   specified fixed hourly rates that include wages, overhead, general and
   administrative expenses, profit, and materials required at cost.

   2420.5. The contract administrator shall provide surveillance of contractor
   performance when a time-and-materials type contract is used.

   2420.6. When the nature of the work to be performed requires the contractor to
   furnish material that it regularly sells to the general public in the normal
   course of its business, the contract may provide for charging material on a
   basis other than cost if the following factors apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The total estimated contract price does not exceed fifty thousand dollars
   ($50,000), or the estimated price of material charged does not exceed twenty
   percent (20%) of the estimated contract price;
   
   
   
   (b)	The material to be charged is identified in the contract;
   
   
   
   (c)	No element of profit on material charged is included as profit in the
   fixed hourly labor rates; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The contract provides that the price to be paid for the material shall be
   based on an established catalog or list price in effect when material is
   furnished, less all applicable discounts to the District, and that in no event
   shall the price exceed the contractor&#8217;s sales price to its most-favored
   customer for the same item in like quantity, or the current market price,
   whichever is lower.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1566 (February 26, 1988).
