                                  DC REGULATIONS

FIXED-PRICE CONTRACTS WITH PROSPECTIVE PRICE REDETERMINATION (ยง 27-2404)

2404.1. The contracting officer may use a fixed-price contract with
   prospective price redetermination in procurements of quantity production or
   services for which it is possible to negotiate a fair and reasonable
   firm-fixed-price for an initial period, but not for subsequent periods of
   contract performance as provided in ยง 2404.4.

   2404.2. The contracting officer shall not use a fixed-price contract with
   prospective price redetermination unless all of the following apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The contracting officer has determined that the conditions for use of a
   firm-fixed-price contract are not present and a fixed-price incentive contract
   would not be more appropriate;
   
   
   
   (b)	The contractor&#8217;s accounting system is adequate for price
   redetermination;
   
   
   
   (c)	The prospective pricing periods can be made to conform with the operation
   of the contractor&#8217;s accounting system; and
   
   
   
   (d)	There is reasonable assurance that price redetermination actions will take
   place promptly at the specified times.

   2404.3. When the contracting officer uses a fixed-price contract with
   prospective price redetermination, the initial period shall be the longest
   period for which it is possible to negotiate a fair and reasonable
   firm-fixed-price. Each subsequent pricing period shall be at least twelve (12)
   months.

   2404.4. A fixed-price contract with prospective price redetermination may
   provide for a ceiling price based on evaluation of the uncertainties involved
   in performance and their possible cost impact. The ceiling price shall provide
   for assumption of a reasonable proportion of the risk by the contractor and,
   once established, may be adjusted only by operation of provisions for an
   equitable adjustment or other revision of the contract price under stated
   circumstances.

   2404.5. When a fixed-price contract with prospective price redetermination is
   used, the contracting officer shall include an appropriate clause approved by
   the Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1557 (February 26, 1988).
