                                  DC REGULATIONS

TYPES OF INCENTIVES (ยง 27-2407)

2407.1. Incentive contracts shall include cost incentives which take the form
   of a profit or fee adjustment formula. No incentive contract shall provide for
   other incentives without also providing for a cost incentive.

   2407.2. Except for cost-plus-award-fee contracts, incentive contracts shall
   include a target cost, a target profit or fee, and a profit or fee adjustment
   formula that (within the constraints of a price ceiling or minimum and maximum
   fee) provides for the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Actual cost that meets the target will result in the target profit or fee;
   
   
   
   (b)	Actual cost that exceeds the target will result in downward adjustment of
   the target profit or fee; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Actual cost that is below the target will result in upward adjustment of
   the target profit or fee.

   2407.3. Technical performance incentives may be considered in connection with
   specific product characteristics or other specific elements of the
   contractor&#8217;s performance.

   2407.4. Technical performance incentives shall be designed to tailor profit or
   fee to results achieved by the contractor, compared with specified target
   goals. The contract shall be specific in establishing performance test
   criteria (such as testing conditions, instrumentation precision, and data
   interpretation) in order to determine the degree of attainment of performance
   targets.

   2407.5. The contracting officer may consider delivery incentives when meeting
   a required delivery schedule is a significant District objective.

   2407.6. The contracting officer shall specify in incentive arrangements the
   application of the reward-penalty structure in the event of District-caused
   delays or other delays beyond the control and without the fault or negligence
   of the contractor or a subcontractor.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1560 (February 26, 1988).
