                                  DC REGULATIONS

SHELTERED MARKET PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION (ยง 27-604)

604.1. The Commission shall establish and maintain a centralized list of
   certified contractors. The central list shall be used by agencies to identify
   contracts or classes of contracts for placement in the sheltered market.
   Appropriate certified contractors on the list shall also receive invitations
   to bid on open market contracts advertised by each agency.

   604.2. Where an agency places specific contracts or categories of contracts in
   the sheltered market, consideration shall be given only to certified
   contractors.

   604.3. An agency head may determine, subject to the approval of the
   Commission, that certain classes of procurements shall not be placed in the
   sheltered market. Agency heads shall give written notice of each determination
   to the Commission.

   604.4. Each agency shall maintain and display in each procurement office
   bidders mailing lists which indicate the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of each contractor doing business with the office; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Those contractors which are certified under the provisions of the Act and
   chapter 6 and 7 of this title.

   604.5. Each agency shall also maintain for review by the Commission the
   following types of procurement lists:
   
   
   
   (a)	Small purchase sources;
   
   
   
   (b)	Term contracts;
   
   
   
   (c)	Blanket purchase orders;
   
   
   
   (d)	Repetitive or recurring procurements; and
   
   
   
   (e)	GSA Schedule procurements.

   604.6. All invitations for bid under the sheltered market shall include the
   following language:
   
   
   
   This invitation for bid is designated for certified minority bidders only,
   under the provisions of D.C. Law 1-95, &#8220;The Minority Contracting Act of
   1977.&#8221;

   604.7. A copy of the MBE letter of certification shall be attached to the
   outside cover of each sealed bid.

   604.8. Invitations to bid in the sheltered market shall be sent to all
   certified MBE&#8217;s which qualify under the work classification for which
   the contract shall be let.

   604.9. Once an agency has placed a contract in the sheltered market, it shall
   not be removed by the agency without the approval of the Commission. That
   approval shall generally be given only upon a showing of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	There are no certified contractors available which are capable of
   performing the contract; or
   
   
   
   (b)	That at least one attempt to solicit bids for the contract in the
   sheltered market has failed to produce an acceptable bid.

   604.10. Any District agency asserting that any bid made by a certified
   contractor or contractors is excessive shall indicate the reasons for that
   assertion to the Commission in writing, including an analysis of the following
   factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	Wage determinations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Overhead;
   
   
   
   (c)	Man-hours required for performance;
   
   
   
   (d)	Use of brokers; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Other pertinent data.

   604.11. Each agency shall submit a quarterly report to the Commission on the
   status of its sheltered market procurement program, in accordance with the
   provisions of ยง7(a)(3) of the Act, on forms to be provided by the Commission.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 26 DCR 2771, 2775 (December 21, 1979).
