                                  DC REGULATIONS

SHELTERED MARKET SUBCONTRACTS (ยง 27-606)

606.1. When an agency&#8217;s sheltered market program includes placement of
   subcontracts in the sheltered market by one (1) or more of its prime
   contractors, those indirect placements shall be made in accordance with the
   provisions of this section.

   606.2. Each solicitation for bids on the open market for contracts which
   include a percentage allocation of subcontracting opportunities to the
   sheltered market shall include a notice to bidders of the requirement for
   placement of certain subcontracts (or a percentage of all subcontracts or
   subcontract value) in the sheltered market.

   606.3. All bids or offers on prime contracts covered by this section shall
   include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the employee of the offeror or bidder who shall administer the
   subcontracting program and a description of the duties of the employee;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the efforts which the offeror or bidder shall undertake
   to ensure that certified MBE&#8217;s will be able to compete for subcontracts
   or participate in a sheltered MBE subcontracting program; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A proposed plan for implementation of the MBE subcontracting goal or
   requirement of the prime contract, including a description of the records
   which will be kept and made available to the agency and Commission to show
   compliance with the sheltered market program aspect of the contract.

   606.4. Each solicitation for bids shall state that no contract will be awarded
   until an acceptable plan is negotiated with the contracting officer and
   incorporated in the contract. Acceptable plans shall, in the opinion of the
   contracting officer, provide the maximum practicable opportunity for certified
   MBE participation in the performance of the contract.

   606.5. Prime contractors awarded contracts containing MBE subcontractor
   requirements shall submit quarterly reports to the contracting agency for
   inclusion in that agency&#8217;s quarterly report to the Commission. These
   reports shall be made on forms supplied by the Commission.

   606.6. If it appears that a prime contractor has not complied with the MBE
   participation requirements of a contract, the Commission may institute a
   compliance review investigation. After the investigation, the Commission shall
   notify the contractor of its findings and recommendations for corrective
   measures. If the contractor fails to correct the deficiencies, the Commission
   may recommend that the contracting agency initiate sanctions or other action
   for breach of contract against the prime contractor.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 26 DCR 2771, 2777 (December 21, 1979).
