                                  DC REGULATIONS

SHELTERED MARKET PROGRAM[COLON] GOALS AND ESTABLISHMENT (ยง 27-602)

602.1. Each agency of the District government shall be required to establish
   an annual program for minority procurement in accordance with the provisions
   of the Act and chapters 6 and 7 of this title.

   602.2. Agency programs established pursuant to this section shall be submitted
   to the Commission annually for review and approval. The Commission shall
   provide forms for submission of annual sheltered market procurement programs.

   602.3. In establishing its annual program, each agency shall allocate its
   contracting and procurement to meet the following goals:
   
   
   
   (a)	Placement of thirty-five per cent (35%) of the total dollar amount of
   construction contracts in the sheltered market; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Placement of thirty-five per cent (35%) of procurement of goods and
   services in the sheltered market.

   602.4. Annual programs shall be established on a fiscal year basis. Agencies
   shall submit proposed programs to the Commission at least sixty (60) days
   before the beginning of the fiscal year. Modifications to the program based on
   the actual fiscal year budget apportionment shall be submitted to the
   Commission within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the final apportionment
   by the agency.

   602.5. Agency sheltered market programs may include any of the following types
   of placements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Direct placement of contracts with certified MBE&#8217;s;
   
   
   
   (b)	Direct placement of contracts with joint ventures certified under ยง701;
   or
   
   
   
   (c)	Indirect placement of contracts by requiring a portion of the subcontracts
   let under an open market contract to be let to certified MBE subcontractors in
   accordance with the requirements of ยง604.

   602.6. Agency programs shall clearly indicate the manner in which the agency
   plans to reach the goals set forth in this section.

   602.7. Agency programs shall specifically indicate the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The total dollar amount of construction contracts to be let by the agency
   during the fiscal year;
   
   
   
   (b)	The total dollar amount of goods and services to be procured by the agency
   during the fiscal year;
   
   
   
   (c)	The construction contracts and subcontracts which shall be placed in the
   sheltered market;
   
   
   
   (d)	Contracts and subcontracts for goods and services which shall be placed in
   the sheltered market;
   
   
   
   (e)	The dollar amounts represented by each construction contract (and
   subcontract) and procurement contract (and subcontract) listed pursuant to
   paragraphs (c) and (d) of this subsection;
   
   
   
   (f)	The percentages of total dollar amounts for both construction and
   procurement of goods and services represented by the portion of each which
   shall be placed in the sheltered market program; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Dollar amounts and percentages for joint venture contracts shall be
   adjusted to reflect the proportion of participation by the MBE(s) in each
   joint venture. Only those portions of contracts which are actually
   attributable to the minority participant(s) shall be counted toward an
   agency&#8217;s program goals.

   602.8. In any instance where the percentages of dollar amounts set forth in an
   agency&#8217;s fiscal year sheltered market program are less than the goals
   set forth in this section for either category, the agency shall include a
   written justification of the difference.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 26 DCR 2771, 2773 (December 21, 1979);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 30 DCR 5734 (November 4, 1983).
