                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROGRAM POLICY (ยง 27-601)

601.1. The Commission shall implement a sheltered market program in accordance
   with the provisions of the Act and chapters 6 and 7 of this title.

   601.2. While it is the general policy of the Commission to encourage minority
   participation in contracting through the regular advertisement and bidding
   process, the Commission may take either of the following actions in specific
   instances:
   
   
   
   (a)	Require that the advertisement of selected contracts for construction,
   goods, or services be limited to categories of contractors; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Authorize the letting of selected contracts by negotiation.

   601.3. Acting pursuant to a written request from a certified contractor, the
   Commission may recommend that any of the following actions be taken by an
   agency:
   
   
   
   (a)	Advance, partial, progress, or other types of payments to contractors
   under contracts for property or services, provided that the payments shall not
   exceed the unpaid contract price, shall be based upon a finding by the agency
   head that they will be in the public interest, and shall be secured in
   accordance with the provisions of sec. 12(c) of the Act; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Waiver of bonding requirements where the waiver shall maintain the
   integrity of the District&#8217;s procurement program.

   601.4. A Commission recommendation on any of the actions set forth in ยง601.3
   shall not be required prior to agency action. An agency may request the
   recommendation of the Commission prior to initiating any such action.

   601.5. The Commission may, from time to time, review minority contracting
   problems and make recommendations for the improvement of minority business
   development in the District of Columbia in accordance with the provisions of
   the Act.

   601.6. The Commission may make specific recommendations with respect to
   particular contracts. In making these recommendations, the Commission shall
   consider the following factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	Emergency or other unusual circumstances;
   
   
   
   (b)	The location of the contractor or other entity;
   
   
   
   (c)	Possible tax benefits to the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (d)	The potential for enhancing the position of minority business in a
   particular market or industry;
   
   
   
   (e)	The potential for encouraging entrepreneurship among residents of the
   District of Columbia; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Other factors affecting the public interest and the promotion of minority
   business in the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 26 DCR 2771, 2772 (December 21, 1979).
