                                  DC REGULATIONS

STANDARDS OF CONDUCT (ยง 17-4809)

4809.1. A licensee shall not engage in sexual conduct with a patient with whom
   he or she has a patient-chiropractor relationship.

   4809.2. A patient-chiropractor relationship exists unless:
   
   
   
   (a)	Professional services are terminated and the patient receives written
   notice of the termination, whether the termination was initiated by the
   patient or licensee;
   
   
   
   (b)	The patient has been appropriately referred to another health professional
   in writing;
   
   
   
   (c)	The patient has accepted treatment by another health professional and the
   licensee documents the patient&#8217;s chart prior to closing the file; or
   
   
   
   (d)	The patient has not received professional services for six (6) consecutive
   months and has not contacted the chiropractor for treatment.

   4809.3. Sexual conduct includes the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any behavior, gestures, or verbal or nonverbal expressions, which may
   reasonably be interpreted as seductive or sexual in nature; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Sexual comments or discussion about a patient or a former patient that are
   not related to chiropractic care or treatment.

   4809.4. A patient shall be provided with a private treatment room, as well as
   examination conditions, which prevent the exposure of the unclothed body of
   the patient unless it is necessary for the chiropractic exam or treatment.

   4809.5. A licensee shall not engage in sexually harassing behavior in the
   practice of chiropractic of a single extreme act or multiple acts toward a
   patient, coworker, employee, student or supervisee whether or not such
   individual is in a subordinate position to the licensee or not.

   4809.6. A licensee may have a chiropractor-patient relationship with a spouse,
   family member or an individual with whom he or she has a mutually committed
   relationship and perform chiropractic treatment, provided the treatment is
   within accepted standards of chiropractic care and the performance of the
   services are not utilized to exploit the patient for sexual arousal or sexual
   gratification.

   4809.7. A licensee shall not seek or solicit sexual contact with a patient
   with whom he or she has a patient-chiropractic relationship or in exchange for
   professional services.

   4809.8. A licensee may not raise the following defenses to any action under
   this section:
   
   
   
   (a)	The licensee was in love with or had affection for the patient; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The patient solicited or consented to the sexual contact with the
   licensee.

   4809.9. A licensee shall exercise independent professional judgment in the
   treatment or evaluation of the patient regardless of whether the patient was
   referred by another healthcare provider.

   4809.10. Repealed

   4809.11. A licensee shall prepare a written or verbal report for consultative
   purposes for another chiropractor, another healthcare provider, hospital or
   agency that currently provides or has provided service to the patient upon
   request.

   4809.12. A licensee shall terminate a professional relationship with a patient
   shall in an appropriate and timely manner so as not to adversely impact the
   health of the patient.

   4809.13. A licensee shall continue a professional relationship for emergency
   treatment with a current patient for a reasonable period of time to allow the
   patient time to obtain another healthcare provider.

   4809.14. A licensee shall arrange for adequate coverage of his or her patients
   during absences when the chiropractor is unavailable to the patients.

   4809.15. A licensee shall not:
   
   
   
   (a)	Accept a patient for treatment or continue with treatment when the
   treatment is unnecessary and the patient cannot be reasonably expected to
   benefit from treatment within normal standards of chiropractic care and
   consistent with the treatment philosophy of the treating chiropractor.
   
   
   
   (b)	Attempt to treat or make misrepresentations about his or her ability to
   treat patients beyond his or her scope of expertise and/or area of specialty
   certification.
   
   
   
   (c)	Refer a patient to a diagnostic or treatment facility or prescribe goods
   and services to be purchased from another facility, in which the chiropractor
   has a pecuniary interest, without first disclosing that interest in writing to
   the patient or third party payor.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 87 (January 6, 2006); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 7938 (July 25, 2008); as amended by
   Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 10139 (October 3, 2008).
