                                  DC REGULATIONS

MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT RIDES AND DEVICES (§ 19-1310)

1310.1. Mechanical amusement rides and devices, including but not limited to
   merry-go-rounds and ferris wheels, used by or in conjunction with, and on
   property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation (the
   “Department”) shall meet the requirements of this section.

   1310.2. The Department shall require that the owner, operator, or contracting
   party for the amusement rides or devices has in effect a liability insurance
   policy having a minimum coverage of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
   for bodily injury to one (1) person, and three hundred thousand dollars
   ($300,000) for bodily injury arising out of any single occurrence.

   1310.3. The Department shall secure from the Mayor or the Mayor’s agent a
   certificate that the rides or devices have been inspected to ensure that each
   ride or device is equipped with the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A safety clutch; and
   
   
   
   (b)	In the case of a ride or device having cars or receptacles which persons
   are permitted  to occupy, hand rails of sufficient number and height, or other
   approved safeguards, to prevent persons from being thrown from the ride or
   device or coming into contact with parts of the ride or device.

   1310.4. The Department shall obtain from the District Fire Marshal a
   certificate stating that the rides or devices, and related equipment, do not
   present a fire hazard.

   1310.5. The inspections required under this section shall be conducted at
   least one (1) time each year, and periodically spot-checked at the discretion
   of the Department.  Rides, devices, or equipment taken out of operation for
   more than thirty (30) days shall be inspected before being put back into
   operation.

   1310.6. The Department of Parks and Recreation shall ensure that the
   Department of Human Services reviews the activities to prevent any unsanitary
   condition.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 6 § 1(f)(1) of the Police Regulations of the District of
   Columbia (January 1983).
   
   
   
   	EDITOR&#8217;S NOTE: The Department of Recreation was renamed the Department
   of Recreation and Parks pursuant to D.C. Law 10-226 and later re-named the
   Department of Parks and Recreation pursuant to Mayor’s Order 2000-20. All
   references in the section to the Department of Recreation shall mean the
   “Department of Parks and Recreation”.
