                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPAYMENT AGREEMENTS TERMS (§ 14-5603)

5603.1 	DCHA shall only execute Repayment Agreements with a Head of Household
   or an owner.

   5603.2. All payments under a Repayment Agreement shall be due in full on the
   first (1st) day of the month and shall be considered to be in default if not
   paid by the tenth (10th) day of the month.  Any check given for payment under
   a Repayment Agreement that is dishonored by the bank upon which it is drawn
   shall be considered in default unless the participant can demonstrate bank
   error.

   5603.3. All repayment agreements shall have the terms of repayment as set by
   DCHA and agreed to by the Head of Household or owner.  Each monthly payment
   shall be a fixed installment of the amount due with a minimum monthly payment
   of ten dollars ($10).

   5603.4. The terms of a Repayment Agreement may be renegotiated if there is a
   decrease or increase in the Family’s income.

   5603.5. Repayment Conditions for owners shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All debts owed by owners shall be repaid through either Repayment Agreement or
   reduction in future HAP at the sole and absolute discretion of DCHA; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   DCHA may determine that a participating owner be given no more than twelve
   (12) months to repay a debt through a Repayment Agreement or through reduction
   in future HAP payments, or some combination thereof.
   
   5603.6 	Hardship exemptions shall be requested in writing by the Head of
   Household for tenant repayments or property owner for owner repayments.  DCHA
   shall verify the hardship circumstances and respond in writing within ten (10)
   days of the receipt of the information verifying the hardship.
   
   5603.7 	DCHA shall consider requests for hardships as described below:
   
   
   
   Monthly payments for Participant Families may be decreased to a minimum of ten
   dollars ($10) per month in cases of Family hardship and if requested with
   reasonable notice from the Family, verification of the hardship, and the
   approval of a HCVP Supervisory staff member;
   
   
   
   In the case of landlord or owner debt, an exemption of one thirty-(30) day
   period may be allowed if requested in writing with reasonable notice from the
   owner, verification of the hardship, and approval by an HCVP Supervisory staff
   member;
   
   
   
   The maximum period for hardship exemptions from repayment agreements shall be
   six (6) months. Hardship exemptions shall only be granted under the following
   circumstances:
   
   
   
   (1) 	The Family has lost eligibility for, or is awaiting, an eligibility
   determination for a federal, state, or local assistance program. This includes
   a Family member who is a noncitizen lawfully admitted for permanent residence
   under the Immigration and Nationality Act who would be entitled to public
   benefits but for Title IV of the Personal Responsibility and Work Act;
   
   
   
   (2) 	Family income has decreased because of changed Family circumstances,
   including the loss of employment or change in household composition;
   
   
   
   (3)	A health emergency occurred that caused an unexpected increase in
   household expenses; or
   
   
   
   (4) 	A death has occurred in the Family; and
   
   
   
   Once the six (6) month period of hardship payments has passed, the original
   repayment terms shall automatically resume.

   5603.8. If DCHA decides not to enter a Repayment Agreement, or a participant
   disputes the amount of the debt, DCHA shall send a notice of the rights to
   review accordance with the policies in chapter 89 of this title of the DCMR.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7935, 7938 (June 29, 2012).
