                                  DC REGULATIONS

VARIANCE (§ 20-103)

103.1. Each person required to perform an act by this subtitle may be excused
   by the  Mayor from the performance of the act, either in whole or in part,
   upon a finding by the Mayor that the full performance of the act would result
   in exceptional or undue hardship by reason of excessive structural or
   mechanical difficulty, or the impracticability of bringing the activity into
   full compliance with the requirements of this subtitle; Provided, that a
   variance may be granted only where, and to the extent necessary to ameliorate
   the exceptional or undue hardship, and only when compensating factors are
   present which give adequate protection to the public health or welfare, and
   assure that the intent and purpose of this subtitle, are not impaired.

   103.2. A person requesting a variance shall submit a written request for the
   variance, together with the supporting data and analyses that may be required
   by the Mayor.

   103.3. The request for a variance shall be filed with the Mayor, within the
   period specified in order for compliance, and shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nature of the act required to be performed;
   
   
   
   (b)	The exceptional or undue hardship which would result from its performance;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	Any variance from the terms of the notice and requirements of this
   subtitle which the person may seek.

   103.4. A variance is granted for the operation of diesel locomotives on common
   carrier railroads in the District.

   103.5. A variance may be granted for experimental and research activities;
   Provided, that the requirements of §§103.1 &#8211; 103.3 are otherwise met.

   103.6. All requests for variances shall be published in the District of
   Columbia Register, at the expense of the applicant, if over five dollars
   ($5.00), at least thirty (30) days before the Mayor rules on the request. The
   published notice shall briefly set forth the information contained in the
   applicant&#8217;s written request. Any person may submit comments on the
   request within thirty (30) days of the published notice.

   103.7. The Mayor shall maintain a written record of all variances granted and
   denied. The record shall include all bases for the grant or denial, and shall
   be available for public inspection.

   103.8. Each variance shall be granted for only one (1) year, and may be
   renewable annually if the Mayor finds that the intent and purpose of this
   subtitle are not impaired. A renewal shall be granted only upon application,
   which shall be made at least ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the
   variance. The requirements of § 103.6 shall apply in cases of renewal.

   103.9. Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit any operation in
   violation of this subtitle during the pendency of a request for a variance.

   103.10. Nothing in this section, and no variance or renewal granted pursuant
   to this section, shall be construed to prevent or limit the application of the
   emergency provisions and procedures of §401 to any person or his or her
   property.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Section 3 of the District of Columbia Air Pollution Control Act of
   1984, D.C. Law 5-165, §103, 32 DCR 562, 568 (February 1, 1985).
