                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS (§ 20-199)

199.1. When used in Chapters 1 through 9 of this title, and in forms
   prescribed under those chapters, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or
   manifestly incompatible with the intent of this subtitle, the following terms
   shall have the meaning ascribed:
   
   
   
   Actual emissions – the actual rate of emissions of a pollutant from an
   emissions unit, as determined in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (f):
   
   
   
   (a)	In general, actual emissions as of a particular date shall equal the
   average rate, in tons per year, at which the unit actually emitted the
   pollutant during the twenty-four (24) month period which precedes the
   particular date and which is representative of normal source operation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Actual emissions shall be calculated using the unit’s actual operating
   hours, production rates, and types of materials processed, stored, or
   combusted during the selected time period;
   
   
   
   (c)	When a project involves multiple emissions units or multiple regulated NSR
   pollutants, or both, only one (1) consecutive twenty-four (24) month period
   within the last five (5) years must be used to determine the actual emissions
   for all pollutants and for all the emissions units affected by the project;
   
   
   
   (d)	The average rate shall not be based on any consecutive twenty-four (24)
   period for which there is inadequate information for determining annual
   emissions;
   
   
   
   (e)	The Department may allow the use of a different time period within the
   last five (5) years upon determining that it is more representative of
   operations; and
   
   
   
   (f)	For any emissions unit which has not begun normal operations on the
   particular date, actual emissions shall equal the potential to emit of the
   unit on that date.
   
   
   
   Administrator – Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
   Agency or an authorized representative.
   
   
   
   Affected facility &#8211; in §702 of this subtitle each individual source
   within a petroleum refinery complex that could potentially leak volatile
   organic compounds to the atmosphere, including, but not limited to, pump
   seals, compressor seals, seal oil degassing vents, pipeline valves, flanges
   and other connections, pressure relief devices, process drains, and open ended
   pipes.
   
   
   
   Air pollutant &#8211; dust, fumes, gas, mist, smoke, vapor, odor, particulate
   matter, or any combination thereof, except that these terms shall not include
   uncombined water in the atmosphere unless it presents a safety hazard.
   
   
   
   Air pollution &#8211; the presence in the outdoor atmosphere of one or more
   pollutants in sufficient quantities and of characteristics and duration as are
   likely to be injurious to public welfare, to the health of humans, plant or
   animal life, or to property, or which interferes with the reasonable enjoyment
   of life and property.
   
   
   
   Allowable emissions – the emission rate of a stationary source calculated
   using the maximum rated capacity of the source (unless the source is subject
   to enforceable limits which restrict the operating rate, hours of operation,
   or both) and the most stringent of the following:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The applicable standards as set forth in 40 C.F.R. parts 60, 61, and 63;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Any applicable State Implementation Plan emissions limitation, including
   those with a future compliance date; or
   
   
   
   (c) 	The emissions rate specified under any requirement or permit condition
   that is enforceable as a practical matter, including those with a future
   compliance date.
   
   
   
   Annual process rate &#8211; the actual or estimated annual fuel, process or
   solid waste operating rate. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Begin actual construction &#8211; the initiation of physical on-site
   construction activities on an emissions unit which are of a permanent nature.
   These activities include, but are not limited to, installation of building
   supports and foundations, laying of underground pipework, and construction of
   permanent storage structures. With respect to a change in method of
   operations, this term refers to those on-site activities other than
   preparatory activities which mark the initiation of the change.
   
   
   
   Best available control technology (BACT) – an emissions limitation
   (including a visible emissions standard) based on the maximum degree of
   reduction for each regulated NSR pollutant which would be emitted from any
   proposed major stationary source or major modification which the Department,
   on a case-by-case basis, taking into account energy, environmental, and
   economic impacts and other costs, determines is achievable for such source or
   modification through application of production processes or available methods,
   systems, and techniques, including fuel cleaning or treatment or innovative
   fuel combustion techniques for control of such pollutant.  In no event shall
   application of best available control technology result in emissions of any
   pollutant that would exceed the emissions allowed by any applicable standard
   under 40 C.F.R. parts 60, 61, or 63.  If the Department determines that
   technological or economic limitations on the application of measurement
   methodology to a particular emissions unit would make the imposition of an
   emissions standard infeasible, a design, equipment, work practice, operational
   standard, or combination thereof, may be prescribed instead to satisfy the
   requirement for the application of BACT.  Such standard shall, to the degree
   possible, set forth the emissions reduction achievable by implementation of
   such design, equipment, work practice or operation, and shall provide for
   compliance by means that achieve equivalent results.
   
   
   
   Blending plant &#8211; any refinery or other facility at which oxygenated
   gasoline is produced through the addition of oxygenates, and at which the
   quality or quantity of the gasoline is not altered in any other manner. (40
   DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Boiler &#8211; an enclosed fossil or other fuel-fired combustion device used
   to produce heat and to transfer heat to recirculating water, steam, or any
   other medium.
   
   
   
   Building, structure, facility, or installation – all of the pollutant
   emitting activities which belong to the same industrial grouping, are located
   on one (1) or more contiguous or adjacent properties, and are under the
   control of the same person (or persons under common control), except the
   activities of any vessel.  Pollutantemitting activities shall be considered as
   part of the same industrial grouping if they belong to the same “Major
   Group” (for example, which have the same first two (2) digit code) as
   described in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, as amended
   by the 1977 Supplement (U.S. Government Printing Office stock numbers 41010066
   and 003005001760, respectively).
   
   
   
   Carrier &#8211; a distributor of gasoline who does not take title to or
   otherwise have ownership of the gasoline, and does not alter either the
   quality or quantity of the gasoline.
   
   
   
   Cartridge filter &#8211; perforated canisters containing filtration paper or
   activated carbon that are used in a pressurized system to remove solid
   particles and fugitives dyes from soil-laden solvent.
   
   
   
   Certifying individual &#8211; the individual responsible for the completion
   and certification of the emission statement and who will take legal
   responsibility for the emission statement&#8217;s accuracy. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Clean Air Act – federal Clean Air Act, enacted August 7, 1977 (Public Law
   95-95; 42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.).
   
   
   
   Cold cleaner &#8211; any batch loaded, non-boiling solvent degreaser.
   
   
   
   Commence &#8211; as applied to construction of a major stationary source or
   major modification &#8211; that the owner or operator has obtained all
   necessary preconstruction approvals or permits and either has:
   
   
   
   (a)	Begun, or caused to begin, a continuous program of physical on-site
   construction of source to be completed within a reasonable time; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Entered into binding agreements or contractual obligations, which cannot
   be cancelled or modified without substantial loss to the owner or operator, to
   undertake a program of actual construction of the source to be completed
   within a reasonable time.
   
   
   
   Complete &#8211; in reference to an application for a permit, that the
   application contains all of the information necessary for processing the
   application, as determined by the Mayor.
   
   
   
   Component &#8211; any piece of equipment which has the potential to leak
   volatile organic compounds which tested in the manner described in §702.6 of
   this subtitle. These sources include, but are not limited to, pumping seals,
   compressor seals, seal oil degassing vents, pipeline valves, flanges and other
   connections, pressure relief devices, process drains, and open ended pipes.
   Excluded from these sources are valves which are not externally regulated.
   
   
   
   Condensate &#8211; hydrocarbon liquid separated from natural gas which
   condenses due to changes in the temperature or pressure and remains liquid at
   standard conditions.
   
   
   
   Construction – any physical change or change in the method of operation
   including fabrication, erection, installation, demolition, or modification of
   an emissions unit that would result in a change in emissions.
   
   
   
   Containers and conveyors of solvent &#8211; piping, ductwork, pumps, storage
   tanks, and other ancillary equipment that are associated with the installation
   and operation of washers, dryers, filters, stills, and settling tanks.
   
   
   
   Continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) – all of the equipment that
   may be required to meet data acquisition and availability requirements to
   sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of emissions
   on a continuous basis.
   
   
   
   Continuous emissions rate monitoring system (CERMS) – the total equipment
   required for the determination and recording of the pollutant mass emissions
   rate of mass per unit of time.
   
   
   
   Continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) – all of the equipment
   necessary to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this
   section, to monitor process and control device operational parameters (for
   example, control device secondary voltages and electric currents) and other
   information (for example, gas flow rate, O2 or CO2 concentrations), and to
   record average operational parameter value(s) on a continuous basis.
   
   
   
   Control device &#8211; any device which has as its primary function the
   control of emissions from fuel burning, refuse burning, or from a process, and
   thus reduces the creation of, or the emission of, air pollutants into the
   atmosphere, or both.
   
   
   
   Control efficiency &#8211; the actual total control efficiency achieved by the
   control device(s). (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Control equipment identification code &#8211; the AIRS/AFS code which defines
   the equipment used to reduce, by destruction or removal, the amount of air
   pollutant(s) in an air stream prior to discharge to the ambient air. (40 DCR
   5474)
   
   
   
   Conveyorized degreaser &#8211; any continuously loaded, boiling or
   non-boiling, conveyorized solvent degreaser.
   
   
   
   Crude oil &#8211; a naturally occurring mixture which consists of hydrocarbons
   and sulfur, nitrogen or oxygen derivatives of hydrocarbons which is liquid at
   standard conditions.
   
   
   
   Cutback asphalt &#8211; any asphalt cement which has been liquified by
   blending with a volatile organic compound(s).
   
   
   
   Dampening solution &#8211; as applied to lithography, is a water-based
   solution, usually containing an acid, a buffer, a gum, and alcohols and used
   to prevent the non-printing areas of the plate from receiving ink.
   
   
   
   Department – The District Department of the Environment (DDOE).
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the District of Columbia Department of Health
   or the Director&#8217;s duly authorized representative.
   
   
   
   Dispersion technique &#8211; includes any intermittent or supplemental control
   of air pollutants varying with atmospheric conditions, or so much of the stack
   height of any source that exceeds the greater of sixty-five (65) meters (213
   feet) or Hg = H + 1.5L, where Hg + maximum stack height determined from
   consideration of all nearby structures, measured from the ground-level
   elevation at the base of the stack, H = height of nearby structure(s) measured
   from the ground-level elevation at the base of the stack, L = lesser dimension
   (height or projected width) of nearby structure(s), or so much of the stack
   height of any source that exceeds the height determined by a demonstration
   performed to the satisfaction of the Mayor. In determining whether a
   demonstration is performed satisfactorily, the Mayor shall take into
   consideration, among other factors, the methods, documents, and practices used
   in performing the demonstration.
   
   
   
   Distillate oil &#8211; any oil that meets the specifications of the American
   Society for Testing and Materials for No. 1 and No. 2 grades of fuel oil (ASTM
   Publication 0396-69 Standard Specifications for Fuel Oils).
   
   
   
   District &#8211; the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Distributor &#8211; any person or party who supplies gasoline for delivery to
   a retail outlet. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Dry cleaning &#8211; a process for the cleaning of textiles and fabric
   products in which articles are washed in a nonaqueous solution (solvent) and
   then dried by exposure to a heated air stream.
   
   
   
   Dry cleaning facility &#8211; a facility engaged in the cleaning of fabrics in
   an essentially nonaqueous solvent by means of one or more washes in solvent,
   extraction of excess solvent by spinning, and drying by tumbling in an
   airstream. The facility includes, but is not limited to, any washer, dryer,
   filer and purification systems, waste disposal systems, holding tanks, pumps,
   and attendant piping and values.
   
   
   
   Emission &#8211; the act of releasing or discharging air pollutants into the
   outdoor atmosphere from any source.
   
   
   
   Emission factor &#8211; an estimate of the rate at which a pollutant is
   released to the atmosphere as the result of some activity divided by the rate
   of that activity. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Emission statement &#8211; annual report of actual emissions of oxides of
   nitrogen and volatile organic compounds required of each owner or operator of
   stationary sources pursuant to the requirements of §182(a)(3)(B) of the
   Federal Clean Air Act. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Emissions unit &#8211; any part of a stationary source which emits or would
   have the potential to emit any pollutant subject to regulation under the
   Federal Clean Air Act or under this subtitle.
   
   
   
   Episode stage &#8211; a level of air pollution in excess of an ambient air
   quality standard which may result in an imminent and substantial danger to
   public health or welfare. This term shall include alert, warning, and
   emergency stages.
   
   
   
   Estimated emissions method code &#8211; a one-position AIRS/AFS code which
   identifies the estimation technique used in the calculation of estimated
   emissions. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Excessive concentrations &#8211; for the purpose of determining good
   engineering practice stack height in a demonstration, a maximum concentration
   due to downwash, wakes, or eddies produced by structures or terrain features
   that the Mayor determines would result in adverse health effect(s) beyond
   those that would be experienced in the absence of the downwash, wake, or
   eddies. In determining the adverse health effect(s) resulting from downwash,
   wakes, or eddies, the Mayor shall take into consideration, among other
   factors, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nature and concentration of the pollutant(s);
   
   
   
   (b)	The applicable National Ambient Air Quality Standard(s);
   
   
   
   (c)	Any other appropriate air quality standard(s); and
   
   
   
   (d)	The possible duration of exposure to the pollutant(s).
   
   
   
   Existing source &#8211; equipment, machines, devices, articles, contrivances,
   or installations which are under construction or in operation on February 1,
   1985, except that any existing equipment, machine, device, article,
   contrivance, or installation which is altered, replaced, or rebuilt after
   February 1, 1985, shall be defined as a new source.
   
   
   
   External floating roof &#8211; a storage vessel cover in an open top tank
   consisting of a double deck or pontoon single deck which rests upon and is
   supported by the petroleum liquid being contained and is equipped with a
   closure seal or seals to close the space between the roof edge and tank wall.
   
   
   
   Federally enforceable – all limitations and conditions which are enforceable
   by the Administrator, including those requirements developed pursuant to 40
   CFR parts 60, 61, and 63 requirements within any applicable state
   implementation plan, any permit requirements established pursuant to 40 C.F.R.
   § 52.21 or under regulations approved pursuant to 40 CFR part 51, subpart I,
   including operating permits issued under an EPA-approved program that is
   incorporated into the state implementation plan and expressly requires
   adherence to any permit issued under such program, or any permit requirements
   not designated as “state only” in a federal operating permit, a permit
   issued pursuant to chapter 3 of this title, or a permit issued pursuant to 40
   C.F.R. parts 70 and 71.
   
   
   
   Fossil fuel &#8211; natural gas, petroleum, coal, and any form of solid,
   liquid, or gaseous fuel derived from these materials.
   
   
   
   Fossil-fuel-fired &#8211; the combustion of fossil fuel or any derivative of
   fossil fuel, alone or in combination with any other fuel, independent of the
   percentage of fossil fuel consumed in any calendar year (expressed in mmBtu).
   
   
   
   Fossil-Fuel-Fired Stream-Generating Unit &#8211; a furnace or boiler, or
   combination of furnaces or boilers connected to a common stack, used in the
   process of burning fossil fuel for the primary purpose of producing steam by
   heat transfer.
   
   
   
   Freeboard &#8211; for cold degreasing tanks, the distance from the top of the
   solvent to the top of the tank; and for vapor degreasing tanks, the distance
   from the solvent vapor-air interface to the top of the tank.
   
   
   
   Fuel burning equipment &#8211; any furnace, boiler, apparatus, stack, and all
   appurtenances in connection with, used in the process of burning fuel for the
   primary purpose of producing heat or power by indirect heat transfer.
   
   
   
   Fugitive dust &#8211; solid, airborne particulate matter emitted from any
   source other than through a stack or originating from any activity or process,
   or both.
   
   
   
   Fugitive emissions &#8211; those emissions which could not reasonably pass
   through a stack, chimney, vent, or other functionally equivalent opening.
   
   
   
   Gas service &#8211; equipment which processes, transfers, or contains a
   volatile organic compound or mixture of volatile compounds in the gaseous
   phase.
   
   
   
   Gas service for pipeline valves and pressure relief valves &#8211; the
   volatile organic compounds being gaseous at conditions that prevail in the
   component during normal operations.
   
   
   
   Gasoline &#8211; any petroleum distillate having a Reid vapor pressure of four
   pounds (4 lbs.) or greater.
   
   
   
   Hydrocarbon &#8211; a volatile organic compound.
   
   
   
   Incinerator &#8211; any furnace used in the process of burning solid waste or
   sludge for the primary purpose or reducing the volume of the waste or sludge
   by removing combustible matter.
   
   
   
   Independent small business marketer of gasoline &#8211; any person engaged in
   the marketing of gasoline who would be required to pay for procurement and
   installation of vapor recovery equipment under §324 of the Federal Clean Air
   Act or regulations promulgated thereunder, unless such person:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is a refiner;
   
   
   
   (b)	Controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with a refiner;
   
   
   
   (c)	Is otherwise directly affiliated with a refiner or with a person who
   controls, is controlled by, or is under a common control with a refiner; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Receives less than fifty percent (50%) of his or her annual income from
   refining or marketing of gasoline. For purposes of the definition of
   independent small business marketer of gasoline, the term
   &#8220;refiner&#8221; shall not include any refiner whose total refinery
   capacity (including the refinery capacity of any person who controls, is
   controlled by, or is under common control with such refiner) does not exceed
   sixty five thousand (65,000) barrels per day, and the terms
   &#8220;controls,&#8221; &#8220;controlled by,&#8221; or &#8220;common
   control&#8221; mean ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the
   refiner&#8217;s common stock. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Indirect source &#8211; any facility, or group of facilities, the use of which
   may result in the emission of one or more air pollutants from any other
   stationary or non-stationary source. Without limiting the generality of the
   foregoing, this phrase includes any facility, whether industrial, commercial,
   residential, public, private or other, used for human activity, any highway,
   road, roadway, street or lane, whether public or private, any associated
   equipment or facility, such as traffic signals, signs, parking meters, any
   airport, and any parking lot or facility.
   
   
   
   Ink &#8211; a fluid or viscous substance used in printing for the purpose of
   creating images, including glues and varnishes used for coating areas of the
   paper (or other substrate). The images and coatings need not be visible to the
   naked eye.
   
   
   
   Innovative control technology &#8211; any system of air pollution control that
   has not been adequately demonstrated in practice, but would have substantial
   likelihood of achieving greater continuous emissions reduction than any
   control system in current practice or of achieving at least comparable
   reductions at lower cost in terms of energy, economics, or non-air quality
   environmental impacts.
   
   
   
   Lead-based paint project &#8211; shall have the same meaning as the term
   &#8220;lead-based paint activity.&#8221;
   
   
   
   Leaking component &#8211; a component which has a volatile organic compound
   concentration exceeding ten thousand (10,000) parts per million when tested in
   the manner described in Appendix 8, EPA Guideline Series, EPA-450/2-78-036,
   OAQPS No. 1.2-111, June 1979 (&#8220;Appendix 8&#8243;).
   
   
   
   Lease custody transfer &#8211; the transfer of produced crude oil or
   condensate, after processing or treating in the producing operations, from
   storage tanks or automatic transfer facilities to pipelines or any forms of
   transportation.
   
   
   
   Liquid-mounted seal &#8211; a primary seal mounted in continuous contact with
   the liquid between the tank wall and the floating room around the
   circumference of the tank.
   
   
   
   Liquid service &#8211; equipment which processes, transfers or contains a
   volatile organic compound or mixture of volatile compounds in the liquid
   phase.
   
   
   
   Loading facility &#8211; any aggregation or combination of gasoline loading
   equipment which is both possessed by one (1) person, and located so that all
   the gasoline loading outlets for the aggregation or combination of loading
   equipment can be encompassed within any circle of three hundred feet (300 ft.)
   in diameter.
   
   
   
   Lowest achievable emission rate (LAER) – for any source, the more stringent
   rate of emissions based on the following:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The most stringent emissions limitation which is contained in the
   implementation plan of any State for such class or category of stationary
   source, unless the owner or operator of the proposed stationary source
   demonstrates that such limitations are not achievable; or
   
   
   
   (b) 	The most stringent emissions limitation which is achieved in practice by
   such class or category of stationary sources.  This limitation, when applied
   to a modification, means the lowest achievable emissions rate for the new or
   modified emissions units within or stationary source.  In no event shall the
   application of the term permit a proposed new or modified stationary source to
   emit any pollutant in excess of the amount allowable under an applicable new
   source standard of performance.
   
   
   
   Major stationary source – any stationary source of air pollutants which
   emits, or has the potential to emit, one hundred tons per year (100 Tpy) or
   more of any pollutant regulated under the Clean Air Act, except that lower
   emissions thresholds shall apply as follows:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Seventy (70) Tpy or more of PM10 or, where applicable, seventy (70) Tpy
   of a specific PM10 precursor, in any nonattainment area for PM10;
   
   
   
   (b)	Fifty (50) Tpy or more of carbon monoxide in any serious nonattainment
   area for carbon monoxide, where stationary sources contribute significantly to
   carbon monoxide levels in the area (as determined under rules issued by the
   EPA Administrator);
   
   
   
   (c) 	Twenty-five (25) Tpy or more of nitrogen oxides or volatile organic
   compounds in any nonattainment area for ozone, except where paragraph (d)
   below is applicable;
   
   
   
   (d)	Ten (10) Tpy or more of nitrogen oxides or volatile organic compounds in
   any extreme nonattainment area for ozone;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Any physical change that would occur at a stationary source not
   qualifying under paragraphs (a) &#8211; (d) above, is a major stationary
   source if the change would constitute a major stationary source by itself;
   
   
   
   (f) 	A major stationary source that is major for volatile organic compounds or
   oxides of nitrogen shall be considered major for ozone; and
   
   
   
   (h) 	The fugitive emissions of a stationary source shall not be included in
   determining major stationary source status, unless the source belongs to one
   (1) of the following categories of stationary sources:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Coal cleaning plants (with thermal dryers);
   
   
   
   (2)	Kraft pulp mills;
   
   
   
   (3)	Portland cement plants;
   
   
   
   (4)	Primary zinc smelters;
   
   
   
   (5) 	Iron and steel mills;
   
   
   
   (6) 	Primary aluminum ore reduction plants;
   
   
   
   (7) 	Primary copper smelters;
   
   
   
   (8) 	Municipal incinerators capable of charging more than two hundred fifty
   tons (250 T) of refuse per day;
   
   
   
   (9) 	Hydrofluoric, sulfuric, or nitric acid plants;
   
   
   
   (10) 	Petroleum refineries;
   
   
   
   (11) 	Lime plants;
   
   
   
   (12) 	Phosphate rock processing plants;
   
   
   
   (13) 	Coke oven batteries;
   
   
   
   (14) 	Sulfur recovery plants;
   
   
   
   (15) 	Carbon black plants (furnace process);
   
   
   
   (16) 	Primary lead smelters;
   
   
   
   (17) 	Fuel conversion plants;
   
   
   
   (18) 	Sintering plants;
   
   
   
   (19) 	Secondary metal production plants;
   
   
   
   (20) 	Chemical process plants;
   
   
   
   (21) 	Fossil-fuel boilers (or combination thereof) totaling more than two
   hundred fifty million British thermal units (250,000,000 Btus) per hour heat
   input;
   
   
   
   (22) 	Petroleum storage and transfer units with a total storage capacity
   exceeding three hundred thousand (300,000) barrels;
   
   
   
   (23) 	Taconite ore processing plants;
   
   
   
   (24) 	Glass fiber processing plants;
   
   
   
   (25) 	Charcoal production plants;
   
   
   
   (26) 	Fossil fuel-fired steam electric plants of more than two hundred fifty
   million British thermal units (250,000,000 Btus) per hour heat input; and
   
   
   
   (27) 	Any other stationary source category which, as of August 7, 1980, is
   being regulated under §§ 111 or 112 of the Clean Air Act.
   
   
   
   Malfunction &#8211; any sudden and unavoidable failure of air pollution
   control equipment, process equipment, or of a process to operate in a normal
   or usual manner. Failures that are caused entirely or in part by poor
   maintenance, careless operation, or any other preventable upset condition or
   preventable equipment breakdown shall not be considered malfunctions.
   
   
   
   Modification – other than as used in § 205 of this title, any physical
   change in, or change in the method of operation of, a stationary source which
   increases or decreases the amount of any air pollutant emitted by the source,
   or which results in the emission of any air pollutant not previously emitted,
   except that the term shall not include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Routine maintenance, repair, or replacement;
   
   
   
   (b)	An increase in the hours of operation or in the production rate, unless
   the change would be prohibited under any federally enforceable permit
   condition established pursuant to § 204;
   
   
   
   (c)	Use of an alternative fuel or raw material if, prior to March 15, 1985,
   the affected facility was designed to accommodate the alternative use; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Decommissioning or removal.
   
   
   
   Multiple chamber incinerator -
   
   
   
   (a)	Any incinerator consisting of three (3) or more refractory lined
   combustion chambers in series, physically separated by refractory walls,
   interconnected by gas passage ports or ducts and employing adequate design
   parameters necessary for maximum combustion of the material to be burned. The
   combustion chamber shall include as a minimum, one chamber principally for
   ignition, one chamber principally for mixing, and one chamber for combustion;
   and
   
   
   
   (b)	Any incinerator consisting of less than three (3) refractory-lined
   combustion chambers in series that is connected to an afterburner approved by
   the Director and employing adequate design parameters necessary for maximum
   combustion of the material to be burned. (36 DCR 2554)
   
   
   
   Nearby &#8211; as used in the definition of &#8220;dispersion
   technique,&#8221; that distance up to five (5) times the lesser of the height
   or the projected width of a structure but not greater than eight tenths (0.8)
   kilometer (five tenths (0.5) mile). The height of the structure is measured
   from the ground-level elevation at the base of the stack. &#8220;Nearby&#8221;
   as applied to terrain features, means up to the distance that a terrain
   feature has an adverse influence on stack effluent or eight tenths (0.8)
   kilometer (five tenths (0.5) mile), whichever is less; except, that if it is
   shown to the satisfaction of the Mayor that the eight tenths (0.8) kilometer
   (five tenths (0.5) mile) restriction is unreasonable, a new cutoff distance
   may be used. In the determination of the unreasonableness of the eight tenths
   (0.8) kilometer (five tenths (0.5) mile) cutoff for demonstrations, the Mayor
   shall take into consideration, among other factors, the extent and shape of
   the terrain feature(s), and the frequency of occurrence of meteorological
   conditions leading to excessive concentrations caused by downwash, wakes, or
   eddies.
   
   
   
   Necessary preconstruction approvals or permits &#8211; those permits or
   approvals required under federal air quality control laws and regulations and
   those air quality control laws and regulations which are part of the State
   Implementation Plan for the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   New source &#8211; equipment, machines, devices, articles, contrivances, or
   installations built or installed on or after the effective date of the
   District of Columbia Air Pollution Control Act of 1984, or existing at that
   time which are later altered, repaired, or rebuilt. Any equipment, machines,
   devices, articles, contrivances, or installations moved to a new address, or
   operated by a new owner, or new lessee, after the effective date of the
   District of Columbia Air Pollution Control Act of 1984, shall be considered a
   new source.
   
   
   
   Non-oxygenated gasoline &#8211; any gasoline having an oxygen content of less
   than two percent (2%) by volume or four tenths of a percent (0.4%) by weight.
   (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Odor &#8211; that property of an air pollutant which affects the sense of
   smell.
   
   
   
   Offset lithography &#8211; a process of planographic offset printing involving
   two (2) difference areas on the plate, one (1) receptive to ink, the other
   receptive to dampening solution.
   
   
   
   Opacity &#8211; the degree to which emissions reduce the transmission of light
   or obscure the view of an object in the background.
   
   
   
   Open-top vapor degreaser &#8211; any batch loaded, boiling solvent degreaser.
   
   
   
   Organic solvents &#8211; volatile organic compounds which are liquids at
   standard conditions, and which are used as dissolvers, viscosity reducers,
   viscosity reducers, or cleaning agents.
   
   
   
   Oxides of nitrogen &#8211; in air pollution usage, this comprises nitric oxide
   and nitrogen dioxide, expressed as the molecular weight of nitrogen dioxide.
   (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Oxygenate &#8211; any oxygen- containing compound approved for use in gasoline
   by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, including
   oxygen-containing compounds which comply with the United States Environmental
   Protection Agency&#8217;s substantially similar definition under § 211(f) (1)
   of the Federal Clean Air Act, or which have received a waiver from the United
   States Environmental Protection Agency under §211(f) (4) of the Federal Clean
   Air Act. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Oxygenated gasoline &#8211; gasoline which contains one or more oxygenates.
   (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Oxygenated gasoline control area &#8211; the District of Columbia portion of
   the Washington, D.C. &#8211; Maryland &#8211; Virginia Metropolitan
   Statistical Area. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Oxygenated gasoline control period &#8211; the four (4) month period which
   begins on November 1st of each year and continues through the last day of
   February of the following year. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Particulate matter &#8211; any finely divided material, with the exception of
   uncombined water, which, under standard conditions, exists as a liquid or
   solid; except, that when a test procedure for particulate matter, specified
   elsewhere in this subtitle, is applicable, particulate matter shall be defined
   by the specified test procedure.
   
   
   
   Particulate Matter 2.5 (PM2.5) – finely divided solid or liquid material,
   including condensable particulate, other than uncombined water, with an
   aerodynamic diameter less than or equal to a nominal two and a half
   micrometers (2.5 µm), emitted to the ambient air. When used in the context of
   ambient concentration, means particles with an aerodynamic diameter less than
   or equal to a nominal two and a half micrometers (2.5 µm)  as measured by a
   reference method based on 40 C.F.R. part 50, appendix L, or an equivalent
   method designated in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 53.
   
   
   
   Particulate Matter 10 (PM10) – particulate matter with an aerodynamic
   diameter less than or equal to a nominal ten micrometers (10 µm).
   
   
   
   Peak ozone season &#8211; the consecutive three (3) month period from June 1st
   through August 31st. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Percentage annual throughput &#8211; the weighted percent of yearly activity
   for the following consecutive three (3) month periods:
   
   
   
   (a)	December through February;
   
   
   
   (b)	March through May;
   
   
   
   (c)	June through August; and
   
   
   
   (d)	September through November. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Perceptible leaks &#8211; any petroleum solvent vapor or liquid leaks that are
   conspicuous from visual observation; such as pools or droplets of liquid, or
   buckets or barrels of solvent or solvent-laden waste standing open to the
   atmosphere.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; includes individuals, firms, partnerships, companies,
   corporations, trusts, associations, organizations, or any other private or
   governmental entities.
   
   
   
   Petroleum liquids &#8211; crude oil, condensate, and any finished or
   intermediate products manufactured or extracted in a petroleum refinery.
   
   
   
   Petroleum refinery complex &#8211; any facility engaged in producing,
   conveying, or distributing gasoline, aromatics, kerosene, distillate fuel
   oils, residual fuel oils, lubricants, asphalt gas, or other products through
   distillation of petroleum or through redistillation, cracking, rearrangement,
   or reforming of petroleum derivatives.
   
   
   
   Petroleum solvent &#8211; organic material produced by petroleum distillation
   that exists as a liquid under standard conditions.
   
   
   
   Plant -the total facilities available for production or service. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Point &#8211; a physical emission point or process within a plant that results
   in pollutant emissions. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Potential to emit – the maximum capacity of a stationary source to emit a
   pollutant under its physical and operational design.  Any physical or
   operational limitation on the capacity of the source to emit a pollutant,
   including air pollution control equipment and restrictions on hours of
   operation or on the type or amount of material combusted, stored, or
   processed, shall be treated as part of its design only if the limitation or
   the effect it would have on emissions is enforceable as a practical matter. 
   Secondary emissions do not count in determining the potential to emit of a
   stationary source.
   
   
   
   Process &#8211; any action, operation, or treatment of materials, including
   handling and storage of the materials, which may cause the discharge of an air
   pollutant or pollutants, into the atmosphere, excluding fuel burning and
   refuse burning.
   
   
   
   Process rate &#8211; quantity per unit time of any fuel burned, or raw
   material or process intermediate consumed, or product generated through the
   use of any equipment, source operation, or process. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Process weight &#8211; the total weight in pounds of all materials introduced
   into any specific process.
   
   
   
   Process weight per hour &#8211; the process weight divided by the number of
   hours in one (1) complete operation, excluding any time during which equipment
   is idle.
   
   
   
   Project – a physical change in, or change in the method of operation of, an
   existing major stationary source.
   
   
   
   Refiner &#8211; any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises
   a refinery. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Refinery &#8211; any facility, Including a blending plant, which produces
   gasoline. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Refinery operator &#8211; a refinery operator of an affected facility or the
   owner of a petroleum refinery complex where the affected facility is located.
   
   
   
   Refinery unit &#8211; a set of components which are a part of a basic process
   operation, such as, distillation, hydrotreating, cracking, or reforming or
   hydrocarbons.
   
   
   
   Reid Vapor Pressure &#8211; the absolute vapor pressure of volatile nonviscous
   petroleum liquids, except liquified petroleum gases, as determined by the test
   methods contained in 40 CFR Part 80, E. (38 DCR 331)
   
   
   
   Retailer &#8211; any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or
   supervises a retail outlet. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Retail outlet &#8211; any establishment at which motor fuel is sold or offered
   for sale to the general public for use in motor vehicles. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Ringelmann smoke chart &#8211; the chart published and described in the United
   States Bureau of Mines Information Circular 8333.
   
   
   
   Routing &#8211; the act of cutting away with a tool, to etch, or to scoop out,
   as with a gouge.
   
   
   
   Secondary emissions &#8211; emissions which occur as a result of the
   construction or operation of a major stationary source or major modification,
   but do not come from the major stationary source or major modification itself.
   Secondary emissions must be specific, well defined, quantifiable, and impact
   the same general areas as the stationary source or modification which causes
   the secondary emissions. Secondary emissions include emissions from any
   offsite support facility which would not be constructed or increase its
   emissions except as a result of the construction or operation of the major
   stationary source or major modification. Secondary emissions do not include
   any emissions which come directly from a mobile source, such as emissions from
   the tailpipe of a motor vehicle, from a train, or from a vessel.
   
   
   
   Segment &#8211; components of an emissions point or process at the level that
   emissions are calculated. (40 DCR 5474)
   
   
   
   Shutdown &#8211; the cessation of operation of a stationary or other source
   for any purpose; except, that for oil-fired fuel-burning equipment, shutdown
   shall be the period starting with the continuous action of turning down or
   pulling out burners for the sole purpose of shutting-down the equipment and
   ending with the time when all burners have been turned off or pulled out.
   
   
   
   Significant -
   
   
   
   (a)	In reference to a net emission increase or the potential of a source to
   emit any of the following pollutants, a rate of emissions that would equal or
   exceed any of the following rates:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Pollutant
