                                  DC REGULATIONS

DESK REVIEWS AND AUDITS (ยง 3-3404)

3404.1. The Report Analysis and Audit Division (Audit Division) of the Office
   of Campaign Finance shall conduct Desk Reviews of each Report of Receipt and
   Expenditure filed with the Agency to ensure the accurate reporting of
   financial activity, as shown by the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The ending balance from the last report filed is carried forward as the
   beginning balance for the report under review;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The information on the Summary Page, including both columns A and B, is
   complete and correct mathematically, and presents an overall view of the
   financial activities of the filer;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The information on the Detailed Summary Page, including both columns A and B,
   is complete and correct mathematically, and presents an overall breakdown of
   the categories of all receipts;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All Schedules A provide complete and detailed information for each receipt, an
   itemized list of, and which equals,  all receipts for each of the categories
   on the Detailed Summary Page, and that each contribution does not exceed
   contribution limits;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   All Schedules B provide complete and detailed information for each
   disbursement,  an itemized list of, and which equals, all disbursements for
   each of the categories on the Detailed Summary page, and list valid purposes
   for each expenditure;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The information on Schedule C is complete and detailed as to all receipts
   received from sales and collections, and the total is carried to the Summary
   Page;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The information on Schedule D is complete and detailed as to all debts and
   obligations (excluding loans) owed by or to the filer,  and the total is
   carried to the Summary Page; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The information on Schedule E is complete and detailed as to all loans made by
   or to the filer, and the total is carried to the Summary Page.

   3404.2. At the conclusion of the Desk Review, the Audit Division will issue a
   Request for Additional Information (RFAI) letter to each filer whose Report of
   Receipts and Expenditures was found to contain errors or discrepancies.  The
   RFAI will detail the errors and discrepancies noted during the Desk Review,
   and will require the filer to respond within fifteen (15) calendar days and
   provide corrections or file an amended report.

   3404.3. In addition, the Audit Division may conduct full field audits and
   periodic random field audits of the receipts, disbursements, and debts and
   obligations of candidates; principal campaign committees; political
   committees; inaugural, transition, and exploratory committees; legal defense
   funds; and constituent-service and statehood fund programs.

   3404.4. Full Field Audits may be initiated as follows:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Following an election year, the principal campaign committees of
   candidates newly elected to office may be selected for full field audit in the
   non-election year occurring thereafter; or
   
   
   
   (b) 	The Director of the Office of Campaign Finance may direct the conduct of
   full field audits as the result of complaints received for the investigation
   of alleged violations of the Campaign Finance Act of 2011 from either the OCF
   or members of the public, or by order of the Board of Elections.

   3404.5. Periodic Random Field Audits will be conducted as follows:
   
   
   
   (a) 	For candidates and continuing principal campaign committees, the auditees
   will be selected from the list of timely filers for each January 31st and July
   31st report date, following the close of the filing deadline;
   
   
   
   (b) 	For political action committees, the auditees will  be selected from the
   list of timely filers for each January 31st and July 31st  report date,
   following the close of the filing deadline; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	For Constituent Service and Statehood Fund Programs, the auditees will be
   selected commencing with the April 1st report date and every other quarterly
   filing deadline thereafter, during the calendar year.

   3404.6. The Audit Branch must notify the Treasurer of the committee selected
   for audit in writing of the audit, and request the delivery to OCF by a date
   certain within thirty (30) calendar days of the issuance of the letter, of all
   underlying documentation, including bank statements and records, copies of
   deposit slips, contributor checks and cards, invoices, and loan documents
   supporting each and every transaction reported during the coverage period.

   3404.7. Upon receipt of all financial records, the audit field work shall
   commence and include the review of all disclosure reports for completeness and
   mathematical accuracy, the reconciliation of bank account records to the
   disclosure reports filed, and such other audit procedures as deemed necessary.

   3404.8. Once the fieldwork is completed, the Audit Division shall issue a
   Preliminary Audit Report, with Findings and Recommendations, and require the
   submission of a written response, amended report, and/or additional
   documentation by the committee within thirty (30) calendar days or less after
   receipt of the Report.

   3404.9. The Final Audit Report will be released and made available to the
   public following the receipt and review of the committee response for
   compliance with all outstanding issues.
   
   
   
   3404.10 	In the event of the failure to provide committee records or to
   respond to the Preliminary Audit Report, in whole or in part, or to any other
   request of the Audit Division, including the Request for Additional
   Information, the Audit Branch will refer the failure to comply to the OCF
   General Counsel for the initiation of the enforcement process pursuant to ยง
   3700 of this title.
   
   
   
   3404.11 	It is the policy of the Board of Elections that extensions of time to
   take action required within a period of time under this chapter will not be
   routinely granted, without a demonstration that good cause exists for such a
   request, and the extension shall not exceed 15 days.
   
   
   
   3404.12 	During the period of any audit under this chapter, the committee must
   continue to file any reports of receipts and expenditures which may become
   due.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 1402 (February 8, 2013).
