                                  DC REGULATIONS

NEIGHBOR TO NEIGHBOR CARE PROGRAM (ยง 14-6214)

6214.1. Purpose of the Program. The District of Columbia Housing Authority
   (&#8220;DCHA&#8221;) Neighbor to Neighbor Care Program is a program designed
   to assist public housing residents participate in activities that are a
   benefit to themselves and the community. The Neighbor to Neighbor Care Program
   is designed to give families a greater ownership in their communities and to
   facilitate upward mobility. Participation for certain residents is required by
   HUD, participation for others is voluntary. The objective, whether
   participation is voluntary or required, is to facilitate residents achieving
   economic self sufficiency and contributing to their neighbors and community.

   6214.2. Voluntary or Required Participation
   
   
   
   (1)	All adult members of a household leasing a rental unit in a public housing
   development exempt or non-exempt under 6214.3, may participate in any Approved
   Service Program as identified in 6214.4.
   
   
   
   (2)	Each adult member of a household leasing a rental unit in a public housing
   development, unless exempt under Subsection 6214.5, shall, as a condition of
   their continued occupancy, contribute the equivalent of eight (8) hours per
   month, for a total of at least 96 hours in any given year, in an approved
   voluntary community service activity as specified in 6214.4.
   
   
   
   (3)	Political activities, including campaigning, voter registration, voting or
   getting out the vote, do not qualify for meeting the Participation Requirement
   specified in 6214.2(2) above. Work that is compensated as employment does not
   qualify to meet the Participation Requirement.

   6214.3. Exemptions
   
   
   
   (1)	Certain adult household members are exempt from required participation in
   the Neighbor to Neighbor Care Program if they can document that they are:
   
   
   
   (a)	62 years old or older;
   
   
   
   (b)	Blind or disabled as determined in accordance with Federal regulations
   implementing the Social Security Act;
   
   
   
   (c)	The primary caretaker of an individual identified in (b) above;
   
   
   
   (d)	Engaged in one, or a combination of, the work activities identified below
   for at least the same number of hours per week (or total over the course of a
   year) as specified in 6214.2(2) above:
   
   
   
   (i)	Employment;
   
   
   
   (ii)	on-the-job training,
   
   
   
   (iii)	job search and job readiness programs, including, but not limited to,
   registration with the Department of Employment Services and the DCHA Section 3
   program.
   
   
   
   (iv)	job skills training directly related to employment,
   
   
   
   (v)	vocational educational training,
   
   
   
   (vi)	education directly related to employment, for individuals who have
   received a high school diploma or a certificate of general equivalence;
   
   
   
   (vii)	satisfactory attendance at secondary school or in a course of study
   leading to a certificate of general equivalence,
   
   
   
   (viii)	provision of child care services to an individual who is participating
   in a Neighbor-to-Neighbor activity or an activity that exempts an individual
   from required Neighbor-to-Neighbor activities.
   
   
   
   (e)	Exempt from having to engage in a work activity under a Qualified
   Assistance Program,
   
   
   
   (f)	A member of a family receiving assistance, under a Qualified Assistance
   Program, provided that the family has not been found by the administering
   agency to be in noncompliance with such program;
   
   
   
   (2)	DCHA shall review the exempt status of each adult family member as part of
   the recertification process.

   6214.4. Approved Service Programs
   
   
   
   (1)	The Office of Resident Services shall maintain a list of approved Neighbor
   to Neighbor sponsors and activities which offer opportunities for service and
   economic and educational advancement for residents. The list shall be
   available to the DCHA City Wide Advisory Board and all DCHA Resident Councils
   as well as from each Property Manager.
   
   
   
   (2)	Additional programs and activities may be approved and added to the list
   from time to time, as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	A resident may request the addition of a Service Program to the list by
   submitting documentation from the sponsor of the -Program as to the
   Program&#8217;s activities and an authorized representation that it does not
   engage in political activities and that the resident will not be employed by
   the Program.
   
   
   
   (b)	Any Resident Council or the City Wide Advisory Board may request the
   addition of a Program by submitting documentation about the Program as to the
   scope of its activities and that the Program is not engaged in political
   activities.
   
   
   
   (3)	Approved Service Programs may include programs and activities such as
   those listed below.
   
   
   
   (a)	Voluntary Community Service Activities, such as: Serving in leadership
   positions in the Resident Council, District of Columbia City-Wide Advisory
   Board, the DHCA Board of Commissioners or the Resident Advisory Committee, but
   no political activities or voter registration activities.
   
   
   
   (b)	Resident Council or City-Wide Advisory Board sponsored Service Programs
   
   
   
   (c)	Participating in DCHA sponsored community service programs, including but
   not limited to Orange Hat patrols, building playgrounds and landscaping
   events;
   
   
   
   (d)	Tutoring or other support program at a local public or private school in
   the resident&#8217;s community
   
   
   
   (e)	Participation in church sponsored programs that support the community and
   individuals in the community
   
   
   
   (f)	Civic and public interest organizations, such as the Boys and Girls Clubs
   of Greater Washington, United Way, AmeriCorps and Vista;
   
   
   
   (g)	Volunteer and support programs at a local public or non-profit
   institution, such as the public, charter or private school, Head Start, before
   or after school programs, childcare center, hospital, clinic, hospice, nursing
   home, recreation center or senior center.
   
   
   
   (h)	Educational Advancement Programs, such as:
   
   
   
   (i)	English proficiency or literacy classes;
   
   
   
   (ii)	English as a second language classes;
   
   
   
   (iii)	Financial Management;
   
   
   
   (iv)	Credit Counseling;
   
   
   
   (v)	Household Management; or
   
   
   
   (vi)	Others as approved by DCHA.

   6214.5. Reporting
   
   
   
   (1)	All adult family members required to participate in the
   Neighbor-to-Neighbor program shall provide to DCHA as part of the
   family&#8217;s recertification package, a signed statement by each such adult
   describing the Neighbor-to-Neighbor activities pursued since the
   household&#8217;s last recertification-and certifying the hours of service
   provided.
   
   
   
   (2)	Each adult family member claiming exemption from required Neighbor-to
   Neighbor program participation according to the provisions of 6214.3, above
   shall provide to DCHA as part of the family&#8217;s recertification package:
   
   
   
   (a)	a signed statement by each adult claiming an exemption certifying either:
   
   
   
   (i)	a statement of the basis of the exemption under 6214.3 (a) &#8211; (c) (e)
   or (f) hereinabove, or
   
   
   
   (ii)	a description of the work activities pursued by each exempt adult member
   under 6214.3(d) hereinabove.
   
   
   
   (3)	DCHA may require a release from the family member authorizing DCHA to
   obtain verification of any or all information provided in the
   household&#8217;s annual report of Neighbor-to-Neighbor activities and DCHA
   may, subsequent to submission, seek third party verification of any or all
   information supporting an exemption.
   
   
   
   (4)	The provision of false certifications or information that can not be
   verified by a third party shall be cause for a determination of non-compliance
   in accordance with 6214.6 below.

   6214.6. Compliance and noncompliance.
   
   
   
   (1)	At least thirty days prior to the household&#8217;s annual recertification
   date, DCHA shall determine that the head of household and all adult family
   members that are not otherwise exempt hereunder have met the Participation
   Requirement through taking part in one or more Approved Service Programs.
   
   
   
   (2)	If DCHA determines that a family member who is required to fulfill the
   Participation Requirement failed to meet the requirement, DCHA shall provide
   written notice to the family member of DCHA&#8217;s determination which shall
   describe such noncompliance.
   
   
   
   (3)	DCHA shall provide an opportunity for the head of household and
   noncompliant family members to cure the non-compliance by:
   
   
   
   a)	Entering into a written agreement whereby the head of household and/or
   noncompliant family member agree to a Personal Service Plan that provides for
   the hours required under 6214.4(2) or 6214.5(d) above, as well as the hours
   that were not provided in the preceding year, over the next twelve. (12) month
   period;
   
   
   
   b)	Agreeing to a date certain to vacate the leased premises.
   
   
   
   (4)	If at the next recertification, any adult family member is still not in
   compliance, DCHA may serve a notice to quit or cure and, unless the head of
   household provides third party documentation in form satisfactory to DCHA that
   the noncompliant family member no longer resides with the family in the unit,
   then DCHA will seek judicial termination of the household&#8217;s lease.
   
   
   
   (5)	A head of household may request a grievance hearing on DCHA&#8217;s
   determination of noncompliance in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 63
   of this Title.

   6214.7. Definitions.
   
   
   
   (a)	&#8220;Adult&#8221; means any individual. 18 years of age or older
   residing in a unit owned by DCHA.
   
   
   
   (b)	&#8220;Approved&#8221; means any approval&#8217; provided by DCHA to the
   head of household and/or a family member in writing.
   
   
   
   (c)	&#8220;Approved Service Program&#8221; is a program approved by DCHA in
   accordance with 6214.4 hereof.
   
   
   
   (d)	&#8220;Exempt&#8221; means an individual for whom participation is not
   required but only voluntary as a result of one or more of the conditions
   described in 6214.3.
   
   
   
   (e)	&#8220;Family Member&#8221; means all authorized occupants under the lease
   agreement with DCHA, excluding Live-in-Aides.
   
   
   
   (f)	&#8220;Head of Household&#8221; means the individual(s) who signed the
   lease agreement with DCHA.
   
   
   
   (g)	&#8220;Participation Requirement&#8221; is the service requirement
   specified in Section 6214.2(2) and met through participation in an Approved
   Service Program.
   
   
   
   (h)	&#8220;Qualified Assistance Program&#8221; is a District of Columbia
   program funded under Part A of Title IV of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C.
   ยง601 et seq. or under any other District of Columbia welfare program
   including a welfare to work program.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 8626 (September 23, 2005).
