                                  DC REGULATIONS

UTILITY ALLOWANCE (§ 14-6201)

6201.1. The DCHA shall establish on a project basis, in accordance with
   Federal regulations, appropriate utility allowances for tenants with
   individual utility meters who pay for their own electricity or gas.

   6201.2. Allowances shall be based on average consumption levels and
   information provided by the D.C. Public Service Commission regarding rates
   approved for utility companies supplying electricity or gas to those dwelling
   units.

   6201.3. Average consumption level calculations shall take into account major
   equipment provided by DCHA at the project or property, and shall make
   allowance for minor equipment normally provided by the tenant, except that
   items provided by the tenant listed in § 6202.1 of this chapter shall not be
   considered in development of average consumption calculations.

   6201.4. As utility rates in the District of Columbia are revised, DCHA shall
   revise its utility allowances, when the computation of the rate change(s) in
   relation to DCHA’s utility allowance results in a change in excess of ten
   percent (10%) in the monetary allowance for a specific utility.  When DCHA
   revises a utility allowance, it shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provide notice to tenants regarding increases or decreases in tenant rent
   due to revised utility allowances;
   
   
   
   (b)	Make tenant rent increases effective at the start of the first month
   following thirty (30) day notice to the tenant, and make tenant rent decreases
   effective at the start of the first month following the change in utility
   allowance; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Prepare and execute a special supplement to the dwelling lease, with an
   explanation of the reason(s) for the change, consistent with § 6200.9 of this
   chapter.

   6201.5. Actual charges billed directly to the tenant shall be his or her
   responsibility, regardless of whether the charges are above or below the
   utility allowance approved by DCHA.

   6201.6. The DCHA shall also establish appropriate utility allowances, on a
   project basis, for tenants with checkmeters where DCHA pays the utility
   supplier but individual units have checkmeters that measure consumption rates
   for the unit.

   6201.7. The DCHA shall be authorized to obtain records of tenants’ utility
   consumption and related charges billed data from utility companies for tenants
   with individual utility meters who pay for their own electricity or gas.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 7973, 8004-8005
   (December 26, 1986).
