                                  DC REGULATIONS

NEIGHBOR TO NEIGHBOR INITIATIVE (ยง 14-6212)

6212.1. The Neighbor to Neighbor Initiative is intended to assist public
   housing residents in improving their economic and social well-being and to
   give residents a greater stake in their communities. The Neighbor to Neighbor
   Initiative allows residents the opportunity to give back to their communities
   and facilitates upward mobility. Through the performance of voluntary work or
   duties that provide a community benefit to their neighbors, residents are
   able, on an individual basis, to improve the quality of their lives, enhance
   their level of self-sufficiency, and increase self-responsibility in their
   communities.

   6212.2. DCHA as part of a demonstration program called Moving to Work (MTW) is
   permitted under the terms of that certain MTW Agreement by and between DCHA
   and the US Department of Housing and Urban Development, dated July 25, 2003,
   is permitted to adopt local program rules and policies suited to the needs of
   DCHA&#8217;s residents and their communities. The DCHA has designed the
   Neighbor to Neighbor Initiative as a voluntary community service initiative in
   lieu of the community service requirements mandated by the Quality Housing and
   Work Responsibility Act of 1998.

   6212.3. DCHA encourages its public housing residents to engage in active
   service to their neighbors and public housing communities through:
   
   
   
   (a)	Active participation in their Resident Council;
   
   
   
   (b)	Active participation in Resident Council activities, including outreach
   programs and events which provide services to residents;
   
   
   
   (c)	Attending training developed and offered by DCHA in support of the
   Neighbor to Neighbor Initiative, such as a Model Resident Council, peer
   training classes, or best practices instruction;
   
   
   
   (d)	Running for leadership positions in the Resident Councils, District of
   Columbia City-Wide Advisory Board and the Board of Commissioners; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Participating in DCHA-sponsored programs, such as Orange Hat Patrols,
   building playgrounds and landscaping events.

   6212.4. DCHA will support residents seeking to provide service to their
   neighbors in the greater community through community service opportunities
   such as, but not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Active volunteering at schools;
   
   
   
   (b)	Outreach programs based at community churches; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Civic and public interest organizations, such as the Boys and Girls Clubs
   of Greater Washington, AmeriCorps, and Vista.

   6212.5. DCHA will publicize notice of community service opportunities in the
   following manner:
   
   
   
   (a)	Periodic publication in the DCHA resident newsletter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Providing information to each Resident Council and the District of
   Columbia City-Wide Advisory Board; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Letters from the Executive Director to residents.

   6212.6. The variety of actions undertaken to support resident voluntary
   participation as part of the Neighbor to Neighbor Initiative will be
   documented in DCHA&#8217;s Annual Report to the DCHA Board of Commissioners.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 8106 (August 20, 2004); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 4214 (April 29, 2005).
