                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT OF HEARINGS (§ 17-2714)

2714.1. Every hearing authorized by § 2710 of this chapter and held before
   the Board or its designee shall be open to the public.

   2714.2. Except when a hearing officer is designated, a majority of the members
   of the Board shall be present to hear the evidence and render a decision
   unless the Board has delegated authority to a hearing panel of three or more
   Board members as described in § 2714.10 of this section.

   2714.3. A person entitled to a hearing shall have the right to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	To be represented by counsel;
   
   
   
   (b)	To present all relevant evidence by means of witnesses and books, papers,
   and documents;
   
   
   
   (c)	To examine all opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	To have subpoenas issued to compel the attendance of witnesses and the
   production of relevant books, papers, and documents upon making written
   request to the Board.

   2714.4. In connection with any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, the
   Board or its designee shall have the power to do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	To request of the Director that counsel from the Office of the Corporation
   Counsel be appointed to represent the District in any case before the Board;
   
   
   
   (b)	To administer oaths or affirmations, either personally or through their
   designated agent, to witnesses called to testify;
   
   
   
   (c)	To subpoena respondents and other witnesses and relevant books, papers,
   and documents;
   
   
   
   (d)	To take testimony;
   
   
   
   (e)	To examine witnesses; and
   
   
   
   (f)	To direct continuance of any case without regard to the limitation in §
   2711 of this chapter.

   2714.5. In proceedings before the Board, if any person refuses to respond to a
   subpoena or refuses to take the oath or affirmation as a witness or thereafter
   refuses to be examined, or refuses to obey any lawful Order of the Board
   contained in its decision rendered after hearing, the Board may apply to the
   proper court for an Order requiring obedience thereto.

   2714.6. In all proceedings held by the Board, the Board shall receive and
   consider any evidence or testimony. However, the Board may exclude
   incompetent, irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence or
   testimony.

   2714.7. In Board proceedings resulting from the Board&#8217;s contemplated
   action to deny licensure, the applicant shall have the burden of satisfying
   the Board of his or her qualifications.

   2714.8. In any Board proceeding resulting from the Board&#8217;s contemplated
   action to refuse to renew, to suspend, or to revoke a license, or to refuse
   transfer or restore a license or to impose a penalty, the District shall have
   the burden of proving that the action should be taken.

   2714.9. In all hearings conducted by the Board, a complete record shall be
   made of all evidence presented during the course of a hearing. Any party to
   the proceedings desiring it shall be furnished with a copy of the record, upon
   payment of the fee as the Board shall prescribe.

   2714.10. The Board may delegate its authority to hold hearings and issue final
   decisions to a panel of three (3) or more members of the Board. Final
   decisions of a hearing panel shall be considered final decisions of the Board
   for purposes of appeal to the D.C. Court of Appeals, except that the person
   against whom an action is contemplated may ask for a rehearing before the full
   Board. If a rehearing before the full Board is requested no appeal to the D.C.
   Court of Appeals, as described in § 2716.3 of this chapter, shall be
   permitted until the full Board has issues a ruling.

   2714.11. The Board may request the licensee to attend a settlement conference
   prior to holding a hearing, and may enter into settlement agreements and
   consent decrees to carry out its functions.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 6998 (July 29, 2005).
