                                  DC REGULATIONS

ESCROW FUND (ยง 17-2702)

2702.1. This section applies to any real estate transaction in which any
   person is entrusted, receives, accepts, or otherwise holds or deposits monies
   or other trust instruments, of whatever kind or nature, pending the
   consummation or termination of the transaction involved, whether or not the
   person requires licensure under this chapter. For the purposes of this
   section, the person receiving the monies or trust instruments shall be
   referred to as the escrow holder or trustee.

   2702.2. In the absence of written instructions to the contrary signed by all
   parties to a real estate transaction, monies or other trust instruments
   received by a person for deposit pending the consummation or termination of
   the transaction shall, within seven calendar (7) days, be deposited in a
   financial institution located within the District whose deposits are insured
   either by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Savings Association
   Insurance Fund, or their successors.

   2702.3. The escrow holder or trustee shall maintain the escrow account as a
   separate account for monies belonging to others.

   2702.4. Each escrow holder or trustee shall notify the Board within fourteen
   (14) calendar days of the name and post office address of the financial
   institution in which any escrow or trustee account has been established on a
   form provided by the Board.

   2702.5. The form shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name of escrow account;
   
   
   
   (b)	Account number;
   
   
   
   (c)	Financial institution where account is located;
   
   
   
   (d)	Address of institution;
   
   
   
   (e)	Licensee&#8217;s name, address, telephone number, and license number; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Written authorization from the escrow holder or trustee allowing the Board
   to examine all documents held by the financial institution related to the
   escrow or trust accounts listed on the form.

   2702.6. Monies or other trust instruments shall be maintained in the account
   until the transaction involved is consummated or terminated, or until proper
   written instructions have been received by the escrow holder or trustee
   directing the withdrawal and disposition of the monies, at which time, all the
   monies shall be promptly and fully accounted for by the escrow holder or
   trustee.

   2702.7. The escrow holder or trustee shall not commingle any of the monies
   held in an escrow or trustee account with his or her own funds or use any of
   the escrow or trust monies for any purpose other than the purpose for which
   the monies were entrusted to him or her. However, the escrow holder or trustee
   may keep a nominal amount of his or her personal funds in an escrow or trustee
   account for the purpose of keeping the escrow or trustee account active.

   2702.8. An escrow holder or trustee shall not be entitled to any part of the
   earnest money or other money paid to, or held by, the escrow holder or trustee
   in connection with any real estate or business transaction as a part or all of
   his or her commission or fee or for any other purpose until the transaction
   has been consummated or terminated.

   2702.9. Monies held in a escrow or trust account for 90 days or more shall
   earn interest beginning on the 91st day until the day that the transaction is
   consummated or terminated.

   2702.10. Interest owed under ยง 2702.9 of this chapter shall be earned at the
   highest of the following rates:
   
   
   
   (a)	The legal maximum rate under federal law for interest on ordinary savings
   deposits in commercial banks;
   
   
   
   (b)	The rate on the account in which the escrow is deposited; or
   
   
   
   (c)	The rate on the certificate of deposit or other security given as the
   escrow or trust.

   2702.11. A service fee of no more than fifteen dollars ($15.00) may be
   subtracted from the interest by the financial institution into which the
   escrow or trust funds are deposited.

   2702.12. In the event of any direct conflict between this section and the
   Security Deposit Act, effective February 20, 1976 (D.C. Law 1-48; 22 DCR
   2825), the Security Deposit Act and any rules or regulations issued under the
   authority of the Security Deposit Act shall prevail.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 6998 (July 29, 2005).
