                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY PROCUREMENT (§ 19-307)

307.1 	If the CCO makes a written determination that procurement is necessary
   to meet an emergency condition or to meet an essential requirement of the
   Authority in emergency circumstances, the CCO may procure goods, services, or
   construction without regard to the procedures set forth in sections 304, 305,
   and 306.

   307.2. For the purposes of this section, “emergency condition” is defined
   as a situation which creates an immediate threat to the public health, safety,
   or welfare, including a situation which threatens the health or safety of any
   person or the preservation and protection of property.

   307.3. Any written determination by the CCO supporting an emergency
   procurement shall include:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A description of the emergency condition or the essential requirements of
   the Authority that must be met:
   
   
   
   (1) 	In the case of a procurement for an emergency condition relating to the
   public health, safety, or welfare, the determination must state the nature of
   the threat and the nature of the harm that the public might suffer if the
   requirement were not met by emergency procurement; and
   
   
   
   (2) 	In the case of a procurement for an emergency condition relating to the
   preservation and protection of property, the determination must describe the
   property and state the threat or harm that the emergency procurement will
   address;
   
   
   
   (b) 	A description of the proposed procurement action;
   
   
   
   (c) 	A description of the requirement, including the estimated value or cost;
   
   
   
   (d) 	A finding that circumstances giving rise to the emergency procurement
   were not reasonably foreseeable by the Authority;
   
   
   
   (e) 	A description of the steps taken to solicit bids or proposals from as
   many potential competitors as possible under the circumstances, or a sole
   source justification in accordance with the provisions of section 308;
   
   
   
   (f) 	A finding that anticipated costs to the Authority will be fair and
   reasonable; and
   
   
   
   (g) 	Any other pertinent facts or reasons supporting the procurement on an
   emergency basis.
   
   
   
   307.4 	The CCO shall not make any procurement under this section to meet any
   continuing need of the Authority, beyond what is necessary to meet the
   emergency condition.
   
   
   
   307.5 	The CCO may use a letter or a verbal request to solicit proposals for
   an emergency procurement. If a letter request is used, the CCO shall ensure
   that the letter is as clear and concise as possible and contains only the
   information necessary for providing a proposal.

   307.6. The CCO shall include all applicable standard contract clauses in any
   purchase order issued under this section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 4907, 4915 (August 22, 1997);
   and as amended by Final Rulemaking at 49 DCR 10814 (November 29, 2002); as
   amended by a Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DCR
   7986 (September 9, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by a Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published 58 DCR 9261 (October 28, 2011).
