                                  DC REGULATIONS

REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS (ยง 19-305)

305.1. Each request for proposals shall set forth at least the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	proposal submission requirements, including the address where proposals
   are to be delivered and the time and date set for receipt of proposals, which
   shall be not less than 30 days from the date of issuance unless the CCO
   determines that the nature of the procurement or the needs of the Authority
   require a quicker response;
   
   
   
   (b)	scope of services, delivery or performance schedule, and any special
   requirements;
   
   
   
   (c)	instructions to offerors and all applicable standard contract provisions;
   
   
   
   (d)	evaluation factors and the relative importance of each factor;
   
   
   
   (e)	requirement that proposals are irrevocable for 120 days after the closing
   date for submission of price proposals or of best and final offers, if
   requested; and
   
   
   
   (f)	requirement that each prospective offeror receiving a request acknowledge
   receipt of any subsequent amendment to the request.

   305.2. The CCO shall publish notice of each request for proposals in a
   newspaper of general circulation.

   305.3. The CCO may, in the CCO&#8217;s sole discretion, conduct a pre-proposal
   conference to discuss procurement requirements. The CCO shall announce the
   conference to all prospective offerors known to have received the request for
   proposals.

   305.4. The CCO may amend a request for proposals by sending written notice at
   a minimum as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	to all prospective offerors known to have received requests for proposals,
   if the time set for receipt of proposals has not passed;
   
   
   
   (b)	to all responding offerors, if the time for receipt of proposals has
   passed but the proposals have not yet been evaluated; or
   
   
   
   (c)	to those offerors in the competitive range, if the competitive range has
   been established.

   305.5. An offeror may modify or withdraw a proposal by giving written notice
   at the office designated in the request for proposals at any time prior to the
   time set for the submission of proposals.

   305.6. The CCO shall not consider a late proposal, modification or withdrawal,
   except in two circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	the CCO may consider a late proposal if it is the only one received;
   
   
   
   (b)	the CCO may consider a late modification if he determines that it makes
   more favorable to the Authority the terms of a timely proposal that would have
   been successful.

   305.7. If the CCO determines in the CCO&#8217;s sole discretion that it is in
   the best interests of the Authority, the CCO may waive, or allow an offeror to
   correct, minor irregularities after the time set for submission of proposals.
   A minor irregularity is a matter of form not of substance, and one that can be
   corrected without prejudice to other offerors, such as: an offeror&#8217;s
   failure to specify the number of its employees; or a offeror&#8217;s failure
   to acknowledge receipt of an amendment where the proposal is clearly
   responsive to the amendment.

   305.8. The CCO may cancel a request at any time prior to award, if the CCO
   determines that cancellation is in the best interests of the Authority.

   305.9. If the CCO so determines, the CCO may hold written or oral discussions
   with all offerors whose proposals are within the competitive range. All
   proposals that have a reasonable chance of being selected for award on the
   basis of the evaluation criteria set forth in the request shall be within the
   competitive range.

   305.10. The CCO shall not disclose technical or pricing information of any
   offeror to a competitor in any discussions.

   305.11. Upon completion of discussions, the CCO shall issue to all offerors in
   the competitive range a written request setting a cut-off date for submission
   of best and final offers.

   305.12. The CCO may elect to require repeated submission of best and final
   offers.

   305.13. The CCO shall make award to the responsible offeror whose proposal is
   most advantageous to the Authority, as determined by a written evaluation of
   proposals on the basis of the criteria set forth in the request.

   305.14. The CCO shall give written notice of award to the successful offeror
   after all required approvals have been obtained.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 4907, 4912-14 (August 22, 1997);
   and as amended by Final Rulemaking at 49 DCR 10814 (November 29, 2002).
