                                  DC REGULATIONS

INVITATIONS FOR BIDS (ยง 19-304)

304.1. Each invitation for bids shall set forth at least the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	bid submission requirements, including the address where bids are to be
   delivered and the time and date for receipt and opening of bids, which shall
   be at least 30 days from the date of issuance unless the CCO determines that
   the nature of the procurement requires a quicker response;
   
   
   
   (b)	a description of the purchase, delivery or performance schedule, and any
   special requirements;
   
   
   
   (c)	instructions to bidders and all applicable standard contract provisions;
   
   
   
   (d)	the basis on which the award will be made;
   
   
   
   (e)	a requirement that bids are irrevocable for 90 days after bid opening; and
   
   
   
   (f)	a requirement that each prospective bidder receiving an invitation
   acknowledge receipt of any subsequent amendment to the invitation.

   304.2. The CCO shall publish a notice of each invitation for bids in a
   newspaper of general circulation.

   304.3. The CCO may, in the CCO&#8217;s sole discretion, conduct a pre-bid
   conference to explain the procurement requirements. The CCO shall announce the
   conference to all prospective bidders known to have received the invitation
   for bids.

   304.4. The CCO may amend an invitation for bids by sending written notice to
   all prospective bidders known to have received the invitation for bids.

   304.5. A bidder may modify or withdraw a bid by giving written notice at the
   office designated in the invitation for bids at any time prior to the time set
   for bid opening.

   304.6. The CCO shall not consider a late bid, modification or withdrawal
   unless: a late bid is the only one received; or the CCO determines that a late
   modification makes the terms of a timely bid that would have been successful
   more favorable to the Authority.

   304.7. If the CCO determines, in the CCO&#8217;s sole discretion, that it is
   in the best interests of the Authority, the CCO may waive, or allow a bidder
   to correct, minor irregularities after bid opening. A minor irregularity is a
   matter of form not of substance, and one that can be corrected without
   prejudice to other bidders, such as: a bidder&#8217;s failure to specify the
   number of its employees; or a bidder&#8217;s failure to acknowledge receipt of
   an amendment where the bid is clearly responsive to the amendment.

   304.8. The CCO may cancel an invitation for bids at any time prior to bid
   award, if the CCO determines that cancellation is in the best interests of the
   Authority.

   304.9. The CCO shall make award to the lowest responsive bidder whose bid
   meets the requirements and criteria set forth in the invitation for bids, if
   the CCO determines in writing that the bidder is responsible and the prices
   offered are reasonable.

   304.10. The CCO shall give written notice of award to the successful bidder
   after all required approvals have been obtained.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 4907, 4911-12 (August 22, 1997);
   and as amended by Final Rulemaking at 49 DCR 10814 (November 29, 2002).
