                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION PROCESS (§ 1-2407)

2407.1. Each applicant shall submit a completed application package, provided
   by the Administrator, which includes the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	An Application for Assistance Form that contains information about:
   
   
   
   (1)	The applicant;
   
   
   
   (2)	The applicant’s bar admission status;
   
   
   
   (3)	The applicant’s residency; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Other available loan forgiveness programs and applicable scholarship
   service obligations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Loan Information Forms that contain specific information about the
   applicant’s educational debt;
   
   
   
   (c)	Lender Certification Forms, completed by the applicant and the lender,
   that verify the details of the applicant’s educational debt;
   
   
   
   (d)	An Employer Certification Form, completed by the applicant and his or her
   employer, that establishes the applicant’s salary and that demonstrates the
   eligibility of the employment under § 2405;
   
   
   
   (e)	Proof, such as copies of filed federal or District income tax returns,
   provided by the applicant, of the applicant’s adjusted gross annual income;
   and
   
   
   
   (f)	Any other relevant information required by the Administrator.

   2407.2. An applicant shall be ineligible for loan repayment assistance if the
   application is incomplete, if it is determined that the applicant made false
   statements in the application packet, or if any of the eligibility
   requirements set forth in § 2404 are not met.

   2407.3. The Administrator shall complete its review of the application,
   determine the applicant’s eligibility, and notify the applicant in writing
   of its decision within forty-five (45) days after the application deadline.

   2407.4. If additional funds are available, the Administrator may accept
   mid-year applications. The Administrator shall complete its review of the
   application, determine the applicant’s eligibility, and notify the applicant
   in writing of its decision within forty-five (45) days after its acceptance of
   a mid-year application.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 1025 (February 2, 2007).
