                                  DC REGULATIONS

REJECTION OF INDIVIDUAL BIDS (§ 27-1532)

1532.1. The contracting officer shall reject any bid that fails to conform to
   the 	essential requirements of the IFB.

   1532.2. The contracting officer shall reject any bid that does not conform to
   the 	applicable specifications unless the IFB authorized the submission of
   	alternate bids and the goods offered as alternates meet the requirements
   	specified in the IFB.

   1532.3. Any bid that fails to conform to the delivery schedule or permissible
   	alternates stated in the IFB shall be rejected.

   1532.4. A bid shall be rejected if the bidder imposes conditions that would
   modify 	the requirements of the IFB or limit the bidder&#8217;s liability to
   the District.  	For example, a bid shall be rejected if the bidder:
   
   
   
   (a)  	Protects against future changes in conditions, such as increased costs,
   if total possible costs to the District cannot be determined;
   
   
   
   (b)  	Fails to state a price and indicates that price shall be &#8220;price in
   effect at time of delivery&#8221; or words of equivalent meaning;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   States a price but qualifies it as being subject to &#8220;price in effect at
   time of delivery&#8221; or words of equivalent meaning;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   When not authorized by an IFB, conditions or qualifies a bid by stipulating
   that it is to be considered only if the bidder receives, or does not receive,
   an award under a separate solicitation;
   
   
   
   (e)  	Requires the District to determine that the bidder’s product meets
   applicable District specifications; or
   
   
   
   (f)  	Limits the rights of the District under any contract clause.

   1532.5. A low bidder may be requested to delete objectionable conditions from
   a 	bid, so 	long as the conditions do not go to the substance, as
   distinguished 	from the form, of the bid or would give the bidder an unfair
   advantage 	over other bidders.  A 	condition goes to the substance of a bid
   when it 	affects price, quantity, quality, or delivery of the items or
   services offered.

   1532.6. The contracting officer may reject any bid if he or she determines
   that the 			bid price is unreasonable. Unreasonableness of price includes not
   only the 			total price of the bid, but the prices for individual line items
   as well.

   1532.7. A bid received from any bidder that is suspended, debarred, or
   otherwise 	ineligible shall be rejected if the period of suspension,
   debarment, or 	ineligibility has not expired by the bid opening date.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		The contracting officer shall reject low bids received from bidders
   				determined not to be responsible, and shall consider the non-responsible
   			bidders for debarment pursuant to chapter 22 of this title.

   1532.9. When bid security is required and a bidder fails to furnish the
   security in 	accordance with the requirements of the IFB, the rules set forth
   in chapter 	27 of this title shall apply.

   1532.10. If a bid received at the District government facility by electronic
   data 	interchange is unreadable to the degree that conformance to the
   essential 	requirements of the IFB cannot be ascertained, the contracting
   officer shall 	immediately notify the bidder that the bid will be rejected
   unless the	bidder provides clear and convincing evidence:
   
   
   
   (a)  	Of the content of the bid as originally submitted; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   That the unreadable condition of the bid was caused by District government
   software or hardware error, malfunction, or other District government
   mishandling.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1435 (February 26, 1988); as
   amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 59 DCR
   3714 (March 6, 2012)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 6290, 6302 (June 1, 2012).
