                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROPOSED RULEMAKING NOTICES (§ 1-309)

309.1. A Proposed Rulemaking that is submitted for publication, including
   rulemakings that give notice of intent to adopt a new rule, amend an existing
   rule, or repeal an existing rule, shall be filed in accordance with the
   provisions of this section, and any other applicable provisions of this
   chapter.

   309.2. The heading of each proposed rulemaking document shall state, in bold
   upper case print, the name of the agency promulgating the proposed rule and
   the phrase “NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING.”

   309.3. The text of the proposed rule(s) shall be preceded by a notice that
   shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of the promulgating official or body authorized to 	issue rules;
   
   
   
   (b)	A citation to the rule(s) amended or repealed or the proposed citation of
   the new rule(s);
   
   
   
   (c)	If the proposed rulemaking is being re-published, pursuant to 	§310.5, a
   citation to the previous notice(s) of proposed 	rulemaking published in the
   D.C. Register;
   
   
   
   (d)	A brief description or title of the proposed rule(s); and
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement of intent to adopt, amend, or repeal the rule(s) in not less
   than thirty (30) days from the date of publication of the notice in the D.C.
   Register. A longer period may be stated if required by law or adopted by the
   agency.

   309.4. The text of the proposed rule(s) shall be followed by a notice that
   indicates the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The manner in which public comments will be received, including an email
   address, telephone number, and other pertinent information;
   
   
   
   (b)	The manner in which a copy of the proposed rule(s) may be obtained, upon
   request, including a requirement for payment of a reasonable fee, if
   applicable; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The date that the notice period begins. The date the notice period begins
   is the date of publication of a proposed rule.

   309.5. In the event there are substantive changes to a proposed rulemaking,
   the rulemaking must be republished in full as a proposed rulemaking for a
   length of time determined by the Administrator, but in no case fewer than
   seven (7) days, and shall include the information required in §309.4 (a),
   (b), and (c).

   309.6. If the last day of the comment period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or
   legal holiday, the last day is extended to the next business day.

   309.7. Proposed rules that are re-submitted for publication, pursuant to
   §310.5, shall indicate those portions of the text that have been
   substantially altered by setting forth the previously published text in
   brackets [....] and underlining the new text that has been altered; Provided,
   that this requirement shall not apply to a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking which
   completely supersedes a previously published notice, so long as the rules were
   never adopted. The new notice shall cite the earlier notice and indicate that
   it has been superseded.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 9855, 9869 (May 4, 1979); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 4091, 4105 (September 18,
   1981); and as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 271, 285
   (January 9, 2009); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59
   DCR 6316 (June 1, 2012).
