                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRE-PUBLICATION REVIEW OF DOCUMENTS (§ 1-308)

308.1. Agencies are encouraged to submit final drafts of rulemaking documents
   and other documents subject to codification in the D.C. Municipal Regulations
   or publication in the D.C. Register to ODAI for pre-publication review in
   accordance with the provisions of this section.

   308.2. The purpose of pre-publication review is to provide agencies with
   assistance and guidance in the application of the provisions of this chapter
   to specific documents while the documents are in the “final draft” stage.
   The review process is not intended to be a substitute for agency preparation
   of the substance of documents in compliance with the provisions of this
   chapter; therefore, “rough” drafts and drafts that contain gross errors of
   grammar, format, and style will not be accepted for review.

   308.3. Documents that have been reviewed prior to adoption or approval as
   proposed rulemaking will generally not require additional review of ODAI prior
   to certification and publication in the D.C. Register. Pre-publication review
   should also greatly reduce the possibility that a document will be rejected
   for publication due to lack of compliance with the publication standards set
   forth in this chapter.

   308.4. Documents submitted for pre-publication review should be in the same
   form as required for submission for publication; however, originals should not
   be submitted for review. Text which is double or triple-spaced will not be
   accepted for pre-publication review.

   308.5. The pre-publication review process will include examination and
   recommendations on the following elements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Numbering of chapters, sections, and paragraphs;
   
   
   
   (b)	Grammar, usage, and other matters of style;
   
   
   
   (c)	Format of notices and text;
   
   
   
   (d)	Contents of draft notices;
   
   
   
   (e)	General readability and organization text; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Compliance with the provisions of this chapter.

   308.6. Every attempt will be made to complete the review process
   expeditiously; however, in cases where the drafts are lengthy and complex,
   agencies should allow at least two (2) weeks for review of final drafts.

   308.7. The Administrator may treat a document submitted for publication in the
   D.C. Register that has been rejected under §301.5 as a document submitted for
   pre-publication review under this section.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 25 DCR 9855, 9868 (May 4, 1979); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 4091, 4104 (September 18,
   1981); and as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 271, 284
   (January 9, 2009).
