                                  DC REGULATIONS

D.C. MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS[COLON] PUBLICATION POLICY (§ 1-312)

312.1. The incorporation of existing and future documents in the official
   compilation of the District of Columbia rules and regulations, the D.C.
   Municipal Regulations (“DCMR”), shall be governed by the publication
   policy set forth in this section.

   312.2. The DCMR shall include every regulation enacted by the appointed
   District of Columbia Council. These documents are generally known as
   “Council Regulations.”

   312.3. The DCMR shall include every act of the elected Council of the District
   of Columbia which specifically amends or modifies an existing Council
   Regulation; which is designated by its provisions as a regulation or amendment
   to the DCMRs; which is designated by its provisions as an amendment to the
   District of Columbia Rules and Regulations (DCRR); or which has not been
   codified or schedule to be codified in the District of Columbia Code. The
   provisions of this subsection shall not apply to emergency or budget acts of
   the Council of the District of Columbia.

   312.4. The DCMR shall include every document of general applicability and
   legal effect that is designated for publication in the DCMR by resolution of
   the Council of the District of Columbia.

   312.5. The DCMR shall include every rule, regulation, or document having
   general applicability and legal effect which was lawfully adopted by the Board
   of Commissioners of the District of Columbia; the Commissioner of the District
   of Columbia; or an authorized agency, board, commission, or official of the
   District of Columbia prior to the effective date of the Administrative
   Procedure Act (D.C. Official Code § 2-501 et seq. (2001))

   312.6. The DCMR shall include every rule, regulation, or document having
   general applicability and legal effect promulgated by the Mayor, Commissioner,
   or any authorized agency, board, commission, or official of the District of
   Columbia since October 2, 1969, which has been properly adopted and published
   in accordance with the provisions of §§6 and 7 of the Administrative
   Procedure Act.

   312.7. All rules, regulations, and documents of general applicability and
   legal effect incorporated in the DCMR shall reflect the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	All amendments, deletions, and other modifications that have been duly
   enacted or adopted by the District of Columbia Council;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Council of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Mayor; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Any authorized agency, board, commission, or official of the District of
   Columbia.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 28 DCR 4091, 4108 (September 18, 1981);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 271, 288 (January 9, 2009).
