                                  DC REGULATIONS

ENROLLMENT CEILING (ยง 29-1503)

1503.1. The Administrator shall limit the number of persons eligible for
   enrollment according to demonstration program requirements for budget
   neutrality. To remain within the demonstration program&#8217;s budget
   parameters, the Administrator shall set and modify the enrollment ceiling in
   consultation with the CMS.

   1503.2. If the number of applicants for participation in the demonstration
   program exceeds the enrollment ceiling, IMA shall select enrollees and a
   waiting list as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	During the initial enrollment period IMA shall select eligible individuals
   in the order the applications are received until the number of participants
   reaches the enrollment ceiling.
   
   
   
   (b)	During the initial enrollment period IMA shall select individuals not
   eligible for immediate enrollment for a waiting list in the order the
   applications are received.
   
   
   
   (c)	After the initial enrollment period and after all persons on the initial
   waiting list have been placed or deemed ineligible for placement, IMA shall
   enroll eligible persons in the order that their applications are received.
   
   
   
   (d)	After the initial enrollment period IMA shall place individuals not
   eligible for immediate enrollment on a waiting list, and persons on the
   waiting list shall become eligible for enrollment in the order that their
   applications were received.

   1503.3. Space in the demonstration program may become available when initial
   demonstration program enrollees disenroll from the demonstration program.
   Disenrollment may occur for the following reasons:
   
   
   
   (a)	Death of an enrollee;
   
   
   
   (b)	Failure to continue to satisfy eligibility requirements; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Eligibility for Medicaid coverage without need of the demonstration
   program.

   1503.4. The number of participants in the traditional Medicaid program shall
   not affect the enrollment ceiling.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 11457 (December 20, 2002)
   [EXPIRED]; as amended by Emergency Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 3876 (May
   16, 2003 ) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 6183
   (August 1, 2003).
