                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECORDS DISPOSITION COMMITTEE (§ 1-1501)

1501.1. Members of the Records Disposition Committee shall serve without
   compensation, but appropriate expenses may be reimbursed by the Public Records
   Administrator from the funds of the Office of Public Records, if authorized in
   advance by the Administrator.

   1501.2. In accordance with section 6(b) of the Act, the Records Disposition
   Committee shall convene when called by the chairperson or any 3 members to do
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Review and act upon agency Records Retention Schedules, General Records
   Schedules, and Disposal Lists submitted for consideration by the
   Administrator;
   
   
   
   (b)	Review and act upon requests for exceptions from the provisions of agency
   Records Retention Schedules or General Records Schedules;
   
   
   
   (c)	Accept for the Archives nonpublic records of historic significance on the
   recommendation of the Administrator; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Consider and resolve policy and other matters affecting the District
   records disposition program.

   1501.3. In accordance with section 7(a)(1) of the Act, records of the District
   may only be transferred, destroyed or disposed of as prescribed by schedules
   or disposal lists that have been approved by the Committee.

   1501.4. In accordance with section 6(c) of the Act, the concurrence of the
   Administrator shall be required for the destruction of any public record.

   1501.5. The Committee’s approval for the disposition of records in
   accordance with this chapter, concurred in by the Administrator if required,
   shall be the final agency decision of the District of Columbia on records
   disposition.

   1501.6. The decisions of the Committee may be appealed to the D.C. Court of
   Appeals in accordance with the provisions of the D.C. Administrative Procedure
   Act.

   1501.7. If advised in writing of an intention to appeal the authorization for
   the destruction of public records, the Administrator shall assure that the
   records subject to destruction are not destroyed for sixty (60) days; and, if
   a timely appeal is filed, until the court has decided the appeal.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 7001, 7002 (October 30, 1987).
