                                  DC REGULATIONS

REVIEW AND EVALUATION OF AGENCY PROGRAMS (§ 1-1505)

1505.1. As required by section 11 of the Act, the Administrator shall review
   and evaluate agency records management programs to ensure that agencies are
   successfully carrying out the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Complying with the Act and this chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Providing for the adequate and proper documentation of the agency’s
   organization, functions, and activities;
   
   
   
   (c)	Selecting and properly maintaining permanently valuable records; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Promptly disposing of records of temporary value in accordance with
   approved disposition schedules and lists.

   1505.2. The Administrator shall furnish to the agency head a written report of
   the findings of any review or evaluation, together with such recommendations
   as the Administrator may make.

   1505.3. An agency head shall submit to the Administrator a plan for
   implementing the recommendations in the review or evaluation report not later
   than ninety (90) calendar days after the date of transmittal of the report to
   the agency head. The agency plan shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Specific actions that the agency plans to take on each recommendation in
   the evaluation report. If the agency does not intend to implement a
   recommendation, the reason for not acting shall be documented in the action
   plan; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A timetable for the completion of each action.

   1505.4. The Administrator shall take the following actions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Analyze the adequacy of the agency action plan to implement the
   recommendations of the evaluation report and provide comments on the plan to
   the agency within sixty (60) calendar days; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide technical and other assistance to the agency in implementing the
   plan.

   1505.5. The Administrator may require periodic progress reports from an agency
   head on implementation of the action plan.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 7001, 7006-07 (October 30,
   1987).
