                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMPLOYEE AGREEMENT TO DEFER COMPENSATION (ยง 7-1400)

1400.1. Any employee of the District of Columbia government (except an
   employee of an agency not under the personnel authority of the Mayor or an
   independent agency as defined in the Comprehensive Merit Personnel Act of
   1978, D.C. Law 2-139, ยง1-601 et seq., D.C. Code, 1981 ed.) shall be eligible
   to participate in the employee deferred compensation program (the
   &#8220;Plan&#8221;).

   1400.2. The Deputy Mayor for Financial Management may enter into an agreement
   with any agency not under the personnel authority of the Mayor or any
   independent agency for the purpose of extending to employees of such agency
   eligibility to participate in the Plan.

   1400.3. Any eligible employee may elect to become a participant in the Plan by
   entering into a Joinder Agreement with the District. The Joinder Agreement
   shall incorporate the Plan Document by reference and set forth the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The amount of compensation to be deferred;
   
   
   
   (b)	The investment election requested by the participant;
   
   
   
   (c)	The payment option elected by the participant; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The beneficiary designated by the participant.

   1400.4. The &#8220;Plan Document&#8221; incorporated into the Joinder
   Agreement between the Deputy Mayor for Financial Management and a participant
   shall contain the official information about the Plan and shall include the
   following terms, conditions, and provisions:
   
   
   
   (a)	The purpose of the Plan;
   
   
   
   (b)	The definitions;
   
   
   
   (c)	The administration;
   
   
   
   (d)	The participation in the Plan;
   
   
   
   (e)	The limitations on deferrals;
   
   
   
   (f)	The investments and account values;
   
   
   
   (g)	The benefits;
   
   
   
   (h)	The Nonassignability;
   
   
   
   (i)	The amendment or termination of Plan;
   
   
   
   (j)	The applicable law; and
   
   
   
   (k)	The miscellaneous provisions.

   1400.5. The Deputy Mayor for Financial Management shall select the investment
   elections available to participants, which shall include, but not be limited
   to, group fixed or variable annuity contracts. The Plan administrator(s) shall
   invest funds held by the Plan administrator(s) pursuant to Joinder Agreements
   in accordance with the requests made by each participant at the time of
   enrollment or change in enrollment.

   1400.6. At the time of entering into or amending a Joinder Agreement, a
   participant shall agree to defer a minimum of twenty dollars ($20.00) per
   biweekly payroll period or forty-three dollars ($43.00) per monthly payroll
   period or such greater amount as may be required under the investment election
   selected in the Joinder Agreement.

   1400.7. The maximum that may be deferred under the Plan for the taxable year
   of the participant shall not exceed the amounts permitted by ยง457(b) of the
   Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
