                                  DC REGULATIONS

MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR MINORITY AND FEMALE EMPLOYMENT (§ 4-1108)

1108.1. The minimum standards for the utilization of minorities in the
   District of Columbia government construction contracts shall be forty-two
   percent (42%) in each trade for each project, and an aggregate workforce
   standard of six and nine-tenths percent (6.9%) for females in each project.
   Any changes in federal standards pertaining to minority group and female
   employment in federally involved construction contracts shall be taken into
   consideration in any review of these requirements.

   1108.2. The construction contractor’s standards established in accordance
   with §1108.1 shall express the contractor’s commitment of the forty-two
   percent (42%) of minority personnel who will be working in each specified
   trade on each of the contractor’s District of Columbia government projects,
   and the aggregate standard of six and nine-tenths percent (6.9%) for the
   employment of females in each District of Columbia government contract.

   1108.3. The hours for minority and female workers shall be substantially
   uniform throughout the entire length of the construction contract for each
   trade used, to the effect that the same percentage of minority workers in the
   trades used shall be working throughout the length of work in each trade on
   each project, and the aggregate percentage in each project for females.

   1108.4. The minimum standard for the utilization of minorities in
   non-construction contracts shall be twenty-five percent (25%) in each of the
   following nine (9) job categories:
   
   
   
   (a)	Officials and managers;
   
   
   
   (b)	Professionals;
   
   
   
   (c)	Technicians;
   
   
   
   (d)	Sales workers;
   
   
   
   (e)	Office and clerical workers;
   
   
   
   (f)	Craftpersons (Skilled);
   
   
   
   (g)	Operative (Semi-skilled);
   
   
   
   (h)	Laborers (Unskilled); and
   
   
   
   (i)	Service workers.

   1108.5. With respect to non-construction contracts the contractor’s
   standards established in accordance with § 1108.4 shall express the
   contractor’s commitment of the twenty-five percent (25%) of minority
   personnel who will be working in each specified craft or skill in each
   contract.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 4952, 4960-61 (August 15, 1986).
