                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACT PROVISIONS (§ 4-1103)

1103.1. Each contract for goods and services, including construction
   contracts, except construction subcontracts for standard commercial supplies
   or raw materials, shall include as express contractual provisions the language
   contained in §§ 1103.2 through 1103.10.

   1103.2. The contractor shall not discriminate against any employee or
   applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, national origin,
   sex, age, marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation, family
   responsibilities, matriculation, political affiliation, or physical handicap.

   1103.3. The contractor agrees to take affirmative action to ensure that
   applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment,
   without regard to their race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age,
   marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation, family
   responsibilities, matriculation, political affiliation, or physical handicap.
   The affirmative action shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Employment, upgrading, or transfer;
   
   
   
   (b)	Recruitment or recruitment advertising;
   
   
   
   (c)	Demotion, layoff, or termination;
   
   
   
   (d)	Rates of pay, or other forms of compensation; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Selection for training and apprenticeship.

   1103.4. The contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to
   employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the
   Contracting Agency, setting forth the provisions in §§ 1103.2 and 1103.3
   concerning non-discrimination and affirmative action.

   1103.5. The contractor shall, in all solicitations or advertisements for
   employees placed by or on behalf of the contractor, state that all qualified
   applicants will receive consideration for employment pursuant to the
   non-discrimination requirements set forth in § 1103.2.

   1103.6. The contractor agrees to send to each labor union or representative of
   workers with which it has a collective bargaining agreement, or other contract
   or understanding, a notice to be provided by the Contracting Agency, advising
   each labor union or workers’ representative of the contractor’s
   commitments under this chapter, and shall post copies of the notice in
   conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment.

   1103.7. The contractor agrees to permit access to all books, records, and
   accounts, pertaining to its employment practices, by the Director and the
   Contracting Agency for purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with
   this chapter, and to require under terms of any subcontractor agreement each
   subcontractor to permit access of the subcontractors, books, records, and
   accounts for such purposes.

   1103.8. The contractor agrees to comply with the provisions of this chapter
   and with all guidelines for equal employment opportunity applicable in the
   District of Columbia adopted by the Director, or any authorized official.

   1103.9. The prime contractor shall include in every subcontract the equal
   opportunity clauses, §§ 1103.2 through 1103.10 of this section, so that
   these provisions shall be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor.

   1103.10. The prime contractor shall take action with respect to any
   subcontract as the Contracting Officer may direct as a means of enforcing
   these provisions, including sanctions for non-compliance; provided, that in
   the event the prime contractor becomes involved in, or is threatened with,
   litigation with a subcontractor or vendor as a result of such direction by the
   contracting agency, the prime contractor may request the District to enter
   into such litigation to protect the interest of the District.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 4952, 4953-54 (August 15, 1986).
