                                  DC REGULATIONS

ARBITRATION PROCEEDINGS (§ 15-2613)

2613.1. If there is any conflict between the Commission&#8217;s procedural
   rules and the rules of this Chapter, the rules of this Chapter shall supercede
   the Commission&#8217;s procedural rules.

   2613.2. Section 150 of the Commission&#8217;s procedural rules shall apply to
   all arbitration proceedings conducted pursuant to this Chapter.

   2613.3. Ex parte communications with the arbitrator or arbitration panel that
   do not relate to a matter of procedure are prohibited while the arbitration
   proceeding is pending. In the event of a prohibited communication, the
   arbitrator or arbitration panel shall be guided by section 108 of the
   Commission&#8217;s procedural rules.

   2613.4. The arbitrator or arbitration panel shall establish the procedural
   schedule.

   2613.5. If the arbitrator or arbitration panel determines that a hearing is
   necessary, the hearing shall be conducted in a fair and impartial manner, in
   accordance with the following procedures:
   
   
   
   (a)	The arbitrator or chair of the arbitration panel shall provide reasonable
   notice to the arbitrating parties of the time and place of the hearing;
   
   
   
   (b)	The arbitrator or chair of the arbitration panel shall give each
   arbitrating party an opportunity, which may be waived, to make an opening
   statement;
   
   
   
   (c)	The arbitrator or chair of the arbitration panel shall afford each
   arbitrating party an opportunity to present oral or written testimony and
   documentary evidence, and shall determine the order of the presentation of the
   evidence;
   
   
   
   (d)	In ruling on evidentiary questions, the arbitrator or chair of the
   arbitration panel shall be guided by, but need not strictly adhere to, the
   Federal Rules of Evidence;
   
   
   
   (e)	The arbitrator or chair of the arbitration panel shall require all
   witnesses to testify under oath or affirmation;
   
   
   
   (f)	The arbitrator or chair of the arbitration panel may permit the
   arbitrating parties to cross-examine witnesses;
   
   
   
   (g)	The arbitrator or chair of the arbitration panel may postpone any hearing
   upon a joint request of the arbitrating parties, sua sponte, or for good cause
   shown in a motion filed by any party to the proceeding at least two (2)
   business days before the date of any hearing;
   
   
   
   (h)	Each arbitrating party shall have the opportunity, which may be waived, to
   present a closing argument;
   
   
   
   (i)	The arbitrator or chair of the arbitration panel may conduct the hearing
   in the absence of any arbitrating party or representative who, after proper
   notice, fails to be present or request a postponement;
   
   
   
   (j)	The arbitrator or chair of the arbitration panel shall make a
   stenographic, audio, or video tape recording of the arbitration hearing;
   
   
   
   (k)	The evidentiary record will close following closing arguments or the first
   business day following the deadline set for the receipt of written briefs, or
   at such time as the arbitrator determines; and
   
   
   
   (l)	The arbitrator or chair of the arbitration panel shall take necessary
   action to avoid delay in the disposition and conduct of the hearing.

   2613.6. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, the arbitrating
   parties may agree on different arbitration procedures, which may be accepted
   by the arbitrator or arbitration panel.

   2613.7. If no hearing is held, then the evidentiary record shall close on the
   day following the date set by the arbitrator or arbitration panel as the final
   date for receipt of submissions from the arbitrating parties, or at some other
   date that the arbitrator or arbitration panel determines.

   2613.8. If the arbitrator or arbitration panel directs an arbitrating party to
   provide information and that party fails or refuses to respond within the time
   limit set, the arbitrator or arbitration panel may reach a decision on the
   issues in the arbitration proceeding based on the best information available,
   from whatever source derived, as provided in 47 U.S.C. § 252(b)(4)(B).

   2613.9. If the act or omission of an arbitrating party impedes the expeditious
   resolution of the issues, an arbitrator or arbitration panel may make such
   orders in regard to the act or omission as are just, including, but not
   limited to, an order limiting a party&#8217;s claims, defenses and/or
   evidence; striking pleadings or parts thereof; dismissing the petition; or
   granting judgment by default. The arbitrator may also determine that the act
   or omission constitutes a failure to negotiate in good faith pursuant to 47
   U.S.C. § 252(b)(5), and shall notify the Commission of that determination.
   The Commission may consider a determination that a party failed to negotiate
   in good faith in its deliberations pursuant to 47 U.S.C. §§ 251 and 271.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 5242 (June 23, 2000)
   [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 8315 (October
   20, 2000); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 140 (January 5,
   2001); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 2905 (March 19,
   2004).
