                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMMISSION REVIEW OF INTERPRETATION OR ENFORCEMENT PETITIONS (§ 15-2624)

2624.1. Upon receipt of the interpretation and enforcement petition and any
   response, the Commission or its designated agent shall determine the
   procedural schedule for the interpretation or enforcement proceeding.

   2624.2. If the Commission determines that a hearing is necessary, then the
   Commission shall follow the procedures outlined in Section 2613.5. The
   Commission shall determine whether or not to schedule a hearing within thirty
   (30) days of the filing of the response to the interpretation or enforcement
   petition. Any hearing shall be scheduled within thirty (30) days of the date
   of this determination.

   2624.3. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, the parties
   involved in the interpretation or enforcement proceeding may agree on
   different interpretation or enforcement procedures, which may be accepted by
   the Commission.

   2624.4. If no hearing is held, then the evidentiary record shall close on the
   day following the date set by the Commission as the final date for receipt of
   submissions from the parties to the interpretation or enforcement proceeding,
   or at some other date that the Commission determines.

   2624.5. If the Commission directs a party to the interpretation or enforcement
   proceeding to provide information and that party fails or refuses to respond
   within the time limit set, the Commission may reach a decision on the issues
   in the interpretation or enforcement proceeding based on the best information
   available, from whatever source derived.

   2624.6. If the act or omission of a party to the interpretation or enforcement
   proceeding impedes the expeditious resolution of the issues, the Commission
   may make such orders in regard to the act of omission as are just, including,
   but not limited to, an order limiting a party&#8217;s claims, defenses, and/or
   evidence; striking pleadings or parts thereof; dismissing the petition, or
   granting judgment by default or determine that the act or omission constitutes
   a failure to negotiate in good faith pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 252(b)(5). The
   Commission may consider a determination that a party failed to negotiate in
   good faith in its deliberations pursuant to 47 U.S.C. §§ 251 and 271.

   2624.7. After review of the documentation presented by the parties to the
   interpretation or enforcement proceeding and the review of the hearing
   transcript, if any, the Commission shall issue an order that may include, but
   is not limited to: interpretations of provisions of the approved agreement;
   orders of specific performance of any provision in the approved agreement; or
   amendment of the approved agreement. If the Commission designates an agent to
   schedule a hearing or hear testimony, the Commission&#8217;s agent shall issue
   its interpretation or enforcement decision within thirty (30) days after the
   hearing date or the close of the evidentiary record, whichever is later. If
   the Commission chooses not to designate an agent, then the Commission shall
   issue an order within thirty (30) days after the hearing date or the close of
   the evidentiary record, whichever is later.

   2624.8. If the Commission designates an agent, the Commission shall review any
   interpretation or enforcement decision by the Commission&#8217;s agent and
   issue an order to adopt, modify, or reject the interpretation or enforcement
   decision within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the interpretation or
   enforcement decision. If any party to the interpretation or enforcement
   proceeding chooses to appeal the interpretation or enforcement decision to the
   Commission, that party shall file its appeal within ten (10) days after the
   issuance of the interpretation or enforcement decision. An original and
   fifteen copies of the appeal shall be filed with the Commission Secretary,
   with a copy served on the Commission&#8217;s agent and the other parties to
   the interpretation or enforcement proceeding on the same day that the appeal
   is filed with the Commission. The Commission shall have thirty days from the
   submission of the appeal to review the appeal and issue an order adopting,
   modifying, or rejecting the interpretation or enforcement decision.

   2624.9. If the Commission orders the amendment of the approved agreement, the
   parties shall submit a new agreement to the Commission for approval within
   thirty (30) days of the issuance of the Commission order requiring the
   amendment of the approved agreement.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 5242 (June 23, 2000)
   [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 8315 (October
   20, 2000); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 140 (January 5,
   2001); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 2905 (March 19,
   2004).
