                                  DC REGULATIONS

RESPONSES TO ARBITRATION PETITIONS (ยง 15-2610)

2610.1. Within three (3) business days of receipt of a timely and complete
   arbitration petition, the Commission Secretary shall notify, by facsimile,
   first class mail, or other method as the Commission Secretary deems
   appropriate, the other party(ies) of the date that the Commission received the
   arbitration petition and of the right to respond to the arbitration petition.

   2610.2. A telecommunications carrier participating in the negotiation that is
   the subject of the arbitration may file a response to the arbitration
   petition. An original and fifteen (15) copies of the response shall be filed
   with the Commission Secretary within twenty-five (25) calendar days of the
   date that the Commission received the arbitration petition. The response shall
   be served on all telecommunications carriers that participated in the
   negotiation that is the subject of the arbitration petition.

   2610.3. All responses to the arbitration petition shall include, at a minimum:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address, and main telephone number of the responding carrier;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name, title, business address, telephone number, fax number, and
   e-mail address (if available) of the person(s) who will be representing the
   responding carrier during the arbitration proceeding;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement of any issues that have been resolved by the arbitrating
   parties, if different from those stated in the arbitration petition;
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement of any issues that are unresolved by the arbitrating parties,
   if different from those stated in the arbitration petition;
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement outlining the positions of each participant in the negotiation
   regarding the unresolved issues, if different from those stated in the
   arbitration petition;
   
   
   
   (f)	All relevant documentation that supports the responding carrier&#8217;s
   position concerning the unresolved issues;
   
   
   
   (g)	Any request for an order for the production of information pursuant to 47
   U.S.C. ยง 252(b)(4)(B);
   
   
   
   (h)	A statement as to whether the responding carrier requests an evidentiary
   hearing; and
   
   
   
   (i)	A certificate of service attesting that a copy of the response and all
   supporting documentation has been served on all other parties to the
   arbitration.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 5242 (June 23, 2000)
   [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 8315 (October
   20, 2000) as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 2905 (March 19,
   2004).
