                                  DC REGULATIONS

FOWL (§ 24-902)

902.1. No person shall harbor, keep, or caused to be kept any live fowl within
   the District in a manner that is contrary to the provisions of this section,
   without a permit from the Mayor.

   902.2. A permit to keep live fowl shall be issued only upon the approval of
   the Director of the Department of Human Services, upon compliance with all
   terms and conditions of this section.

   902.3. Permits shall be dated and shall expire at the end of one (1) year.
   Permits may be reissued annually after the first year under the same
   conditions of original approval.

   902.4. An application for the renewal of a permit shall be filed within thirty
   (30) days prior to the expiration of the existing permit. In cases where no
   violation of these regulations is recorded in the Department of Human Services
   during the preceding year, permits may be renewed for one (1) year by
   endorsement by the Director of Human Services.

   902.5. Applications for permits shall be furnished by the Director of the
   Department of Human Services, and shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (b)	The proposed location where the fowl will be kept;
   
   
   
   (c)	An accurate description of the kind and number of fowl, or the progeny of
   the fowl; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any other information required.

   902.6. Each application shall be accompanied by a plat prepared by the
   District Surveyor that shows accurately the location of the enclosure for the
   fowl as the enclosure will be placed on the applicant&#8217;s property, and
   the respective distance of the enclosure to adjoining property lines.

   902.7. Approval by the Director of the Department of Human Services shall be
   based upon investigation and a report that the following conditions are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The proposed location is not within fifty feet (50 ft.) of any building
   used for human habitation;
   
   
   
   (b)	The proposed location is not within two hundred and fifty feet (250 ft.)
   of any property line or, if this is not the case, the applicant has furnished
   to the Director with the written consents of all householders and owners of
   property located within one hundred feet (100 ft.) of the boundaries of the
   premises upon which fowl are to be kept, and within the same square; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Adequate coops, pens, cotes, runways, and other enclosures will be
   provided, subject to approval by the Director upon issuance of the permit.

   902.8. No fowl shall be kept or permitted to run, fly, or stray within fifty
   feet (50 ft.) of any building used for human habitation, or onto property
   other than the enclosure designated in the application for permit; except
   where a permit has been approved by the Mayor and issued under §902.9.

   902.9. Notwithstanding the limitations set forth in this section, a permit may
   be issued to a public vocational school if the Mayor approves the issuance of
   a permit based on a finding that the keeping of fowl at the school will not
   affect adversely the health, comfort, and quiet of the neighborhood.

   902.10. All coops, pens, cotes, runways, and other enclosures shall be kept
   clean, dry, and sanitary at all times.

   902.11. All droppings shall be composted with twelve inches (12 in.) of earth
   cover, or stored in water-tight metal containers with tight-fitting covers.

   902.12. Coops, pens, cotes, runways, other enclosures, and the premises shall
   be free of rats, places where rats can harbor or obtain food, and conditions
   conducive to the breeding of flies.

   902.13. All buildings or structures on any premise where fowl are kept shall
   be protected against the ingress of rodents.

   902.14. Nothing in this section shall apply to properly licensed commercial
   fowl establishments keeping, killing, or selling fowl.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Article 18, §§9-11 of the Police Regulations (May 1981).
