                                  DC REGULATIONS

VACCINATION OF DOGS AGAINST RABIES (§ 24-901)

901.1. Each year, during the period from the last Monday in April through the
   following Saturday, each person in the District of Columbia who owns, keeps,
   or has custody of a dog that is three (3) months old or older shall have the
   dog vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian.

   901.2. The provisions of §901.1 shall not apply to any dog that has been
   vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian within the twelve (12)
   months immediately preceding the last Monday in April, if the owner, keeper,
   or person having custody of the dog has secured and kept a valid vaccination
   certificate and numbered vaccination tag for the dog.

   901.3. A dog that has been vaccinated under the provisions of §901.2 shall be
   revaccinated each year twelve (12) months after the date of the previous
   vaccination.

   901.4. The anti-rabies vaccine used for the vaccination required under this
   section shall be of a strength and type approved by the Director of Human
   Services.

   901.5. Vaccination shall be done in either of the following ways:
   
   
   
   (a)	At the expense of the District by veterinarians designated for that
   purpose; or
   
   
   
   (b)	At the expense of the person owning, keeping, or having custody of the dog
   by a private veterinarian.

   901.6. The Mayor shall establish and publicize several school locations
   throughout the city where free vaccinations shall be provided.

   901.7. Dogs shall be brought to the clinics as soon as possible after the
   opening time. Clinics will not be held during periods of rain.

   901.8. Dogs brought to clinics shall be leashed in accordance with the
   provisions of §§ 900.3 and 900.4.

   901.9. The veterinarian administering the anti-rabies vaccine shall execute a
   certificate of vaccination and furnish the original to the owner other person
   presenting the dog for vaccination. The certificate shall be on a form
   prescribed by the Mayor.

   901.10. The veterinarian administering the vaccine shall retain a copy or
   duplicate of the certificate.

   901.11. The copy or duplicate of the certificate of vaccination shall be
   disposed of in the manner prescribed by the Director of Human Services.

   901.12. Each veterinarian practicing in the District shall furnish to the
   Director of Human Services any reports concerning dogs vaccinated against
   rabies by the veterinarian that may be required by the Director.

   901.13. Upon completion of a rabies vaccination, a veterinarian shall furnish
   a numbered vaccination tag to the owner or other person presenting the dog for
   vaccination.

   901.14. No veterinarian licensed to practice in the District shall issue a
   rabies vaccination certificate or vaccination tag for any dog unless the dog
   has been vaccinated against rabies by him or her.

   901.15. Each person owning, keeping, or having custody of a dog in the
   District shall affix the vaccination tag provided under §901.13 to the collar
   or harness of the dog. The owner shall keep the tag affixed to the dog&#8217;s
   collar or harness.

   901.16. No person owning, keeping, or having custody of a dog in the District
   shall do either of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Affix or permit to be affixed to the collar or harness of the dog any tag
   other than a current tax tag, vaccination tag, or owner&#8217;s identification
   tag; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Affix or permit to be affixed to the collar or harness of the dog any
   vaccination tag not issued for that dog.

   901.17. Except as provided otherwise in §901.18, the owner, keeper, or other
   person having custody of a dog that is brought into the District shall have
   that dog vaccinated against rabies within fifteen (15) days after the arrival
   of the dog in the District.

   901.18. If a dog brought into the District has already been vaccinated in
   accordance with the provisions of this section and the owner, keeper, or other
   person having custody of the dog has a valid vaccination certificate and tag
   issued by the veterinarian who performed the vaccination, the dog shall not
   have to be vaccinated again until twelve (12) months after the date of the
   last vaccination.

   901.19. The Director of Human Services shall have authority to require the
   following control measures when deemed necessary to control the spread of
   rabies in the District:
   
   
   
   (a)	Muzzling;
   
   
   
   (b)	Leashing;
   
   
   
   (c)	Confinement; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Quarantine.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Regulation No. 71-23, effective July 9, 1971.
