                                  DC REGULATIONS

FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS[COLON] MANAGED CARE PROVIDER (§ 29-5602)

5602.1. The managed care provider shall ensure, through its contracts,
   subcontracts and any other appropriate manner that in the event of the
   provider’s insolvency neither enrolled children, their families, nor the
   District are held liable for debts of the managed care provider.

   5602.2. The managed care provider shall deposit into an escrow account,
   established and held in trust in a financial institution in the District for
   the sole purpose of holding such deposits, a surety bond, cash, securities,
   letters of credit, or an acceptable combination of these, an amount that shall
   be the greater of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Five percent (5%) of its estimated expenditures for health care services
   rendered to enrolled children in the first year of the demonstration;
   
   
   
   (b)	Twice its estimated average monthly uncovered expenditures for services
   rendered to enrolled children in the first year of the demonstration; or
   
   
   
   (c)	One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000).

   5602.3. The managed care provider’s deposits shall equal two percent (2%)
   and three percent (3%) of the provider’s annual expenditures for the second
   and third years of the demonstration. These deposits shall be based the
   provider’s prior year’s operating expenses and delivery arrangements.

   5602.4. The Department may require the managed care provider to update its
   insolvency deposits on a quarterly basis if the provider is experiencing rapid
   growth and may order suspension of enrollment until the appropriate deposit is
   certified by the Department.

   5602.5. Except as specified in §5602.7, all income from deposits shall belong
   to the managed care provider and shall be paid to the managed care provider as
   the income becomes valid.

   5602.6. The provider agreement submitted by the managed care provider shall
   specifically delineate the procedures that will apply in the event of default.

   5602.7. If the managed care provider defaults, the Department may use the
   provider’s deposit to recover any capitation payments issued to the managed
   care provider and to cover the cost of care for children enrolled in the
   provider’s plan until the affected children are assigned to the Medicaid
   fee-for-service program.

   5602.8. All funds held in escrow shall be invested only in securities or other
   investments permitted by District laws that govern the investment of assets
   constituting the legal reserves of life insurance.

   5602.9. The managed care provider shall obtain, at its own expense,
   reinsurance in the form of individual stop loss protection.

   5602.10. Any director, officer, employee, or partner of the managed care
   provider who receives, collects, disburses, or invests funds in connection
   with the activities of the provider shall be responsible for the funds as a
   fiduciary of the managed care provider.

   5602.11. The managed care provider shall maintain in force a fidelity bond in
   an amount not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per person for
   each officer and employee who has a fiduciary responsibility or duty to the
   managed care provider.

   5602.12. The managed care provider shall provide and maintain liability and
   malpractice insurance, as applicable, in an amount sufficient to cover all
   claims that may arise out of the provider’s operations under the terms of
   the Medicaid provider agreement and shall provide proof of insurance coverage
   to the Department upon application to provide managed care services to
   eligible children. If a carrier of liability or malpractice insurance cancels
   the managed care provider’s insurance, the provider shall send written
   notice of the cancellation to the Department within 24 hours of the
   insurer’s notice to the managed care provider of its intent to cancel.

   5602.13. The managed care provider shall maintain unemployment compensation
   coverage and worker’s compensation insurance in accordance with applicable
   federal and District or State laws and regulations. If any carrier of
   unemployment or worker’s compensation insurance cancels the provider’s
   insurance, the managed care provider shall send written notice of the
   cancellation to the Department within twenty-four (24) hours of the
   insurer’s notice to the provider of its intent to cancel.

   5602.14. If the managed care provider’s liability, malpractice, worker’s
   compensation or unemployment compensation insurance is canceled or lapses, the
   managed care provider shall cease to provide any services to eligible children
   enrolled in the provider’s plan until the insurance is reinstated or
   comparable insurance is purchased.

   5602.15. The Department shall not pay the managed care provider for any
   services provided to enrolled children while the provider operates without
   insurance. If the Department does make a payment for services rendered while
   the managed care provider operated without insurance, the provider shall
   reimburse the Department for the payments.

   5602.16. The Department may adjust any future payments to the managed care
   provider to recover any payments made while the provider operated without
   insurance.

   5602.17. The Department may also use the managed care provider’s deposit to
   obtain coverage for enrolled children while the provider is operating without
   required insurance.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 4833, 4835 (September 6, 1996).
