                                  DC REGULATIONS

PAYMENT FOR SERVICES (§ 29-5607)

5607.1. The Department shall not make any payment for Medicaid services to the
   managed care provider unless the provider has executed a Medicaid managed care
   provider agreement.

   5607.2. The managed care provider’s Medicaid managed care provider agreement
   with the Department shall be for a twelve (12) month period.

   5607.3. The managed care provider shall be paid by the Department on a fixed,
   monthly per capita basis for the covered services it provides to eligible
   children enrolled in the provider’s plan.

   5607.4. The capitation rates shall be based on the actuarially adjusted per
   capita fee-for-service cost of providing services covered by the Medicaid
   managed care provider agreement to the eligible population for the most recent
   completed fiscal year as reported through the Department’s Medicaid
   Management Information System.

   5607.5. The managed care provider shall not be paid a monthly capitation rate
   in excess of historical Medicaid program costs for the eligible Medicaid
   population inflated forward from the base year.

   5607.6. Reimbursement to the managed care provider shall not exceed the upper
   limits defined in 42 C.F.R. §447.361 for services provided under a risk
   contract.

   5607.7. The managed care provider shall enter into a risk sharing arrangement
   to limit the financial gains and losses for the demonstration. The arrangement
   shall establish risk corridors around an eighty-five percent (85%) target
   medical claims ratio. The actual medical claims ratio for any year is equal to
   the claims paid for that year for services covered under the managed care
   provider’s evidence of coverage divided by total capitation payments made by
   the Department to the managed care provider. The risk corridors are as
   follows:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Percent Gain / Loss Assumed
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Actual Medical Claims Ratio
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Department
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provider
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   85%
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   - -
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   - -
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   80% &#8211; 85% &#8211; 

   5607.8. The risk sharing arrangement shall include an annual settlement
   process. The actual medical claims ratio shall be calculated on an incurred
   basis. The settlement process shall be completed no later than ninety-two (92)
   days after the end of the fiscal year.

   5607.9. The managed care provider shall assume financial responsibility and
   provide reasonable reimbursement for emergency services that are obtained by
   children enrolled in the managed care provider’s plan from providers and
   suppliers outside the managed care provider’s plan even in the absence of
   the managed care provider’s prior approval.

   5607.10. The managed care provider’s Medicaid managed care provider
   agreement shall provide that, in the case of medically necessary services
   which were provided (1) to a child enrolled with the managed care provider
   under the agreement and entitled to benefits with respect to such services
   under the State’s Plan and (2) other than through the managed care provider
   because the services were immediately required due to unforeseen illness,
   injury, or condition, the managed care provider provides for reimbursement
   with respect to those services.

   5607.11. Services not covered under the managed care provider’s Medicaid
   managed care provider agreement but covered by the Medicaid program shall be
   reimbursed by the Department on a fee-for-service basis in accordance with the
   rate or methodology described in the State Plan of Medical Assistance.

   5607.12. If the Medicaid program institutes a change in Medicaid services that
   leads to an increase or decrease of three percent (3%) or more in the total
   cost of care within the term of the Medicaid managed care provider agreement,
   the capitated rate shall be recalculated within thirty (30) days of the
   effective date of change, and increased or decreased accordingly.

   5607.13. No capitation rate increase or decrease shall be effective until
   thirty (30) days after the notice of the rate change has been published in the
   D.C. Register.

   5607.14. The Department shall, at the written request of the managed care
   provider, make available to the data utilized to compute the capitation rates
   and reports that attest to the actuarial soundness of the method.

   5607.15. If the managed care provider subcontracts with a Federally Qualified
   Health Center (FQHC), the managed care provider shall permit the FQHC to elect
   to be paid at one hundred percent (100%) of reasonable costs for the services
   described in §1905(a)(2)(C) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
   §1396d(a)(2)(C)) in accordance with the requirements of §1903(m)(2)(A) of
   the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. §1396b(m)(2)(A)).

   5607.16. Each capitation rate specified in the contract shall be in effect for
   the entire twelve (12) month term of the Medicaid managed care provider
   agreement, except as provided in §5607.13.

   5607.17. The managed care provider shall not impose co-payment requirements or
   other fees on enrolled children.
   
   
   
   If an enrolled child loses Medicaid eligibility or voluntarily elects to
   return to the Medicaid fee-for-service program, the Department shall cease
   payments to the managed care provider for that child effective the last day of
   the month in which eligibility is terminated or the disenrollment becomes
   effective.

   5607.18. The Department shall pay a capitated payment to the managed care
   provider each month for each child enrolled as of the fifteenth (15) day of
   the previous month. The Department shall send each prepaid, capitated provider
   a roster of enrolled children five (5) days before the first day of the month
   which shall serve as the basis for determining payment for that month.
   
   
   
   The Department reserves the right to withhold capitated payments for children
   enrolled in the managed care provider’s plan for whom accurate addresses or
   current locations cannot be determined.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 4833, 4845 (September 6, 1996).
