                                  DC REGULATIONS

AUDIT AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS (§ 29-5613)

5613.1. The managed care provider shall file a financial statement annually
   with the Department, which shall be certified by at least two (2) principal
   officers. The financial statement shall be filed with the Department not more
   than ninety (90) days after the close of the provider’s fiscal year.

   5613.2. The managed care provider shall have the financial statement described
   in §5613.1 audited by an independent certified public account.

   5613.3. The audited financial statement shall clearly indicate total expenses
   and revenues and specify the expenses and revenues attributable to eligible
   children enrolled in the managed care provider’s plan.

   5613.4. Upon the Department’s written request, the managed care provider
   shall permit and assist the federal government or its agents, or the
   Department in the inspection and audit of any financial records of the
   provider or its subcontractors. The provider agreement shall require that the
   provider’s and subcontractor’s records be available for inspection and
   audit by the Department.

   5613.5. Annual audit reports and records shall be retained by the managed care
   provider for at least a five (5) year period.

   5613.6. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or other action
   involving the records described in this section is initiated before the
   expiration of the five (5) year period, the records shall be retained until
   completion of the action and final resolution of all issues that arise from
   the litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or other action, including any
   appeal and the expiration of any right of appeal, or until the end of the five
   (5) year period, whichever is later.

   5613.7. Each month, the managed care provider shall submit reports of program
   utilization, costs, and other information necessary to assess the provider’s
   performance. The Department shall describe the content and format of these
   reports.

   5613.8. Each quarter, the managed care provider shall submit a summary of
   program utilization in the format prescribed by the Department. This summary
   shall include the following information with respect to eligible children
   enrolled in the provider’s plan:
   
   
   
   (a)	Number of member-months in the quarter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Number of newly enrolled children;
   
   
   
   (c)	Number of children disenrolled;
   
   
   
   (d)	Number of inpatient admissions and inpatient days incurred;
   
   
   
   (e)	Number of physician visits provided;
   
   
   
   (f)	Number of out-of-plan referrals; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Number of emergency room encounters.

   5613.9. The managed care provider shall prepare semiannual summaries of
   financial performance under its Medicaid managed care provider agreement that
   describes the total clinical expenditures incurred and assigned contribution
   to overhead.

   5613.10. The quarterly utilization summary and semiannual financial summary
   shall be submitted to the Department not later than ninety (90) days after the
   close of the quarter or the six (6) month semi-annual review period.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 4833, 4851 (September 6, 1996).
