                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICE DELIVERY AND QUALITY ASSURANCE REQUIREMENTS (§ 29-5606)

5606.1. The managed care provider shall provide each enrolled child with high
   quality health care at locations that ensure reasonable availability and
   accessibility.

   5606.2. The managed care provider shall provide, either directly or by
   referral, each service in the Medicaid managed care benefits package,
   including patient management, referrals and approvals.

   5606.3. The managed care provider shall ensure that urgent and emergency
   medical care are available to enrolled children on a twenty-four (24) hour,
   seven (7) day a week basis, either through the provider or through other
   appropriate facilities.

   5606.4. The managed care provider shall conduct an orientation program to
   inform enrolled children and their families of available services and
   facilities.

   5606.5. The managed care provider shall allow each enrolled child, to the
   maximum extent feasible, the freedom to choose from among its participating
   providers of primary health care.

   5606.6. The managed care provider shall notify the Department in writing of
   the primary health care provider to whom the child is assigned by the end of
   the first month of enrollment, and within thirty (30) days after a
   reassignment.

   5606.7. The managed care provider shall provide health education programs for
   enrolled children, in languages understood by the population being served. The
   education programs shall include, at a minimum, information regarding the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The importance and availability of preventive care;
   
   
   
   (b)	The importance and availability of childhood immunizations;
   
   
   
   (c)	The importance of, right to, and procedure of scheduling the Early
   Periodic Screening, Diagnosis and Treatment (EPSDT) screens for children
   covered by Medicaid;
   
   
   
   (d)	The importance and availability of reproductive health services; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Preventive and treatment measures for drug abuse and alcoholism.

   5606.8. The managed care provider shall have a system for follow-up of patient
   care for enrolled children, including an appointment follow-up system for
   children who do not appear for appointments.

   5606.9. The managed care provider shall maintain a current, unified service
   delivery record on each enrolled child.

   5606.10. The managed care provider shall establish and maintain a quality
   assurance program to review the quality, appropriateness and timeliness of the
   services provided. The quality assurance program shall be approved by the
   Department in accordance with the requirements of §5606.11.

   5606.11. The managed care provider’s quality assurance program shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be consistent with federal Medicaid utilization review and control
   regulations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide for review, by appropriate health care professionals, of the
   process followed in providing health services; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide for systematic data collection on performance utilization and
   treatment outcomes.

   5606.12. The managed care provider, to the maximum extent possible, shall
   adhere to the following access standards for enrolled children:
   
   
   
   (a)	Enrolled children shall have access to primary care sites and hospitals
   within thirty (30) minutes or thirty (30) miles of their residence. Children
   shall have access to specialty care detailed in HSCSN’s evidence of coverage
   within thirty (30) minutes or thirty (30) miles of their residence. The
   Department may make exceptions for an enrolled child who requests to receive
   services from a specialty provider with whom the child has an established
   relationship but where the travel time/distance is greater than thirty (30)
   minutes or thirty (30) miles;
   
   
   
   (b)	Appointments must be available for enrolled children in accordance with
   the normal practice standards and hours of operation. Maximum expected waiting
   times for appointments shall be as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	Emergency care must be provided as the situation dictates. In general,
   emergency care must be provided in accordance to the timeframe dictated by the
   nature of the emergency, at the nearest available facility, twenty-four (24)
   hours a day, seven (7) days a week;
   
   
   
   (2)	Triage and appropriate treatment for urgent care shall be provided the
   same or next day; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Appointments for non-urgent care and routine primary care shall be
   provided within three (3) weeks of client request;
   
   
   
   (c)	Enrollees with appointments shall not routinely be made to wait in the
   office longer than one (1) hour; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Referral appointments to specialists shall not exceed thirty (30) days for
   routine care or forty-eight (48) hours for urgent care. All emergency care
   must be provided on an immediate basis, at the nearest facility available,
   regardless of contracting arrangements.

   5606.13. The managed care provider shall obtain accreditation through an
   external review by an independent quality accreditation organization such as
   the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) or
   the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA).

   5606.14. This accreditation process shall begin within twelve (12) months of
   execution of a Medicaid managed care provider agreement. Provisional
   accreditation must be received by the end of the third year of participation
   in the program.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 4833, 4842 (September 6, 1996).
