                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUBCONTRACTS (§ 29-5612)

5612.1. Each subcontract entered into by the managed care provider for
   services covered by the Medicaid managed care provider agreement shall be
   submitted to the Department for approval prior to the execution of the
   subcontract.

   5612.2. No subcontract shall terminate the legal obligation of the managed
   care provider to ensure that all activities carried out by the subcontractor
   conform to the provisions of the managed care provider’s Medicaid managed
   care provider agreement. Subject to these conditions, any service or function
   required to be provided by the managed care provider may be subcontracted to a
   qualified organization or person.

   5612.3. The Department shall notify the managed care provider, in writing, of
   its approval or disapproval of the proposed subcontract and supporting
   documentation required by the Department with fifteen (15) business days of
   receipt of the proposed subcontract and supporting materials. The Department
   shall specify the reasons for any disapproval, which shall be based only on
   District or Federal law or regulations. The managed care provider may not
   directly or indirectly restrict a subcontractor from engaging in business with
   other providers of Medicaid services.

   5612.4. If the managed care executes a subcontract for services covered by the
   Medicaid managed care provider agreement without the prior written approval of
   the Department, the Department may terminate the managed care provider’s
   Medicaid managed care provider agreement in accordance with the procedures of
   §5619.

   5612.5. The Department may require the managed care provider to furnish
   additional information relating to the ownership of the subcontractor, the
   subcontractor’s ability to carry our the proposed obligations under the
   subcontract, and the procedures to be followed by the managed care provider to
   monitor the execution of the subcontract.

   5612.6. Subject to the provisions of §5612.1, the managed care provider may
   enter into a subcontract with a health care provider who is not enrolled in
   the Medicaid program but who otherwise meets all other federal and District
   requirements for participation in the Medicaid program.

   5612.7. The managed care provider shall not enter into a subcontract for
   Medicaid services with a health care provider who has been convicted of any
   crime or who has been the subject of any sanction described in §1128 of the
   Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. §1320a-7). The Department shall not reimburse
   the managed care provider for any services provided to an enrolled child by a
   subcontractor who has been convicted of a crime or who has been the subject of
   a sanction described in §1128 of the Social Security Act.

   5612.8. Except as provided in §5601.2, the managed care provider shall not
   enter into a subcontract with a hospital located outside the District to
   provide inpatient hospital services to eligible children enrolled in the D.C.
   Medicaid Managed Care Program for Disabled Children and Youths.

   5612.9. Each subcontract shall be in writing and shall contain, at a minimum,
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Information identifying each party, including the name, address and type
   of organization;
   
   
   
   (b)	The legal basis for operating as a health care provider in the District,
   including licenses, accreditation, certificates of operation, and
   registration;
   
   
   
   (c)	Descriptions of services to be provided or other activities to be
   performed by the subcontractor in a form that permits the Department to
   definitively determine the nature and scope of the Medicaid obligations that
   have been subcontracted;
   
   
   
   (d)	An agreement that financial and programmatic information, records, and
   data collected and maintained by the subcontractor that relate to enrolled
   children and/or services provided to them shall be made available to the
   managed care provider and the Department for inspection;
   
   
   
   (e)	An agreement that the subcontractor shall look solely to the managed care
   provider for compensation for services provided to children enrolled in the
   managed care provider’s plan;
   
   
   
   (f)	A description of the payment methodology to be utilized to reimburse the
   subcontractor;
   
   
   
   (g)	Assurances of appropriate professional liability coverage;
   
   
   
   (h)	Assurances that the subcontractor shall comply with all applicable
   provisions of District and federal law and regulations pertaining to Title XIX
   of the Social Security Act and all District and federal laws and regulations
   applicable to the service or activity covered by the subcontract;
   
   
   
   (i)	An agreement that the subcontractor shall submit encounter data to the
   managed care provider; and
   
   
   
   (j)	If the subcontract is subject to assignment, an agreement that no
   assignment shall take effect without prior written approval from the
   Department.

   5612.10. The managed care provider shall notify the Department, in writing, of
   the termination of any subcontract and any arrangements made to ensure
   continuation of the services covered by the terminated subcontract not less
   than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of the termination.

   5612.11. If the Department determines that the termination or expiration of a
   subcontract materially affects the ability of the managed care provider to
   carry out its responsibility under its Medicaid managed care provider
   agreement, the Department may terminate the Medicaid managed care provider
   agreement.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 4833, 4849 (September 6, 1996).
