                                  DC REGULATIONS

CIRCULATION OF PETITIONS (§ 3-1703)

1703.1. In order to circulate petitions pursuant to this chapter, a person
   shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be at least 18 years of age;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be a citizen of the United States;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not be incarcerated for a crime that is a felony in the District;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Not have been found by a court of law to be legally incompetent to vote; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Either be a resident in the District of Columbia or, if not a resident in the
   District of Columbia, have registered as a non-resident petition circulator
   prior to circulating a petition in accordance with Sections 1703.2 and 1703.3.

   1703.2. Each petition circulator who is not a resident of the District of
   Columbia shall, prior to circulating a petition under this chapter, complete
   and file with the Board a  Non-Resident Petition Circulator Registration Form
   in which he or she:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provides the name of (and office sought by) the candidate or ballot measure in
   support of which he or she will circulate the petition;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Provides his or her name, residential address, telephone number,  and email
   address;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Swears or affirms that he or she, while not a resident of the District of
   Columbia, is otherwise eligible to vote in the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Acknowledges that he or she has received from the Board information regarding 
   the rules and regulations governing the applicable petition circulation
   process, and that he or she will adhere to such rules and regulations;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Consents to submit to the Board’s subpoena power and to the jurisdiction of
   the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the enforcement of Board
   subpoenas.

   1703.3. Each non-resident petition circulator shall present proof of residence
   to the Board at the time he or she files the Non-Resident Petition Circulator
   Registration Form.  Valid proof of residence is any official document showing
   the circulator’s name and residence address.  Acceptable forms of proof of
   residence include:
   
   
   
   (a)  	A copy of a current and valid government-issued photo identification;
   
   
   
   (b)  	A copy of a current utility bill, bank statement, government check,
   paycheck;
   
   
   
   (c)  	A copy of a government-issued document; or
   
   
   
   (d)  	A copy of any other official document, including leases or residential
   rental agreements, occupancy statements from homeless shelters, or tuition or
   housing bills from colleges or universities.

   1703.4. Each circulator shall swear or affirm under oath that he or she:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Personally circulated the petition;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Personally witnessed the signing of each signature on the petition;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Determined from each signer that he or she is a registered voter in the same
   party and, if applicable, the same ward, as the candidate.

   1703.5. Signatures appearing on nominating petition pages shall not be counted
   as valid unless all required information is provided by the circulator in his
   or her affidavit.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 2006, 2024 (March 11, 1988); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 2467, 2512 (April 10, 1992);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 5582 (April 12, 2013).
