                                  DC REGULATIONS

DETERMINATION OF FILM DC GRANT PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY (§ 1-3101)

3101.1. The Director of the OMPTD determines whether particular motion picture
   and television productions and the expenditures associated with those
   productions qualify for incentives under the Act. The recipient of the grant
   will receive an amount not to exceed the lesser of 10% of qualified expenses
   or 100% of the sales and use taxes paid to the District on the qualified
   expenses. Grant funds will be disbursed following OMPTD’s receipt and
   approval of the final certified accounting and cost report of production
   expenditures prepared by the production company as required by §3101.6(e).

   3101.2. In evaluating whether a Project is eligible for grant funding, the
   Director of the OMPTD will take into consideration the mandatory and
   discretionary criteria set forth in this section. The OMPTD shall require all
   applicants to meet the mandatory criteria. The OMPTD will be entitled to give
   priority or more or less weight to any of the discretionary criteria based on
   its view of the current needs of the District. The discretionary criteria are
   not intended to be used in a mathematical equation; consequently, mere
   compliance with a majority of these discretionary criteria does not guarantee
   eligibility for Film DC Grant Program funds. The OMPTD may also consider other
   factors in determining whether a particular project is eligible for grant
   funding, provided that the additional factors are reasonably related to the
   goals of the Act.

   3101.3. MANDATORY CRITERIA
   
   
   
   To be eligible for grant funding, the applicant must:
   
   
   
   (a)	expend at least $500,000 in the District on a qualified film project; and
   
   
   
   (b)	actively film in the District for a period of five (5) or more days.

   3101.4. DISCRETIONARY CRITERIA
   
   
   
   To determine if a production qualifies for grant funding, the OMPTD will
   consider:
   
   
   
   (a)	the percentage of production to be filmed in the District;
   
   
   
   (b)	the extent to which the production has the necessary financing in place to
   begin production;
   
   
   
   (c)	how much of the production budget will be spent in the District;
   
   
   
   (d)	the viability of the film distribution plan, including the date the master
   will be released for distribution;
   
   
   
   (e)	if there is an acceptable completion bond and insurance policy in place
   with industry recognized providers;
   
   
   
   (f)	the credentials and references of the production company and its
   principals and producers;
   
   
   
   (g)	the extent to which the production schedule follows a reasonable timeline
   leading to completion of the project;
   
   
   
   (h)	the specific film locations planned in the District; and
   
   
   
   (i)	the extent to which the applicant has complied with OMPTD application and
   information disclosure requirements.
   
   
   
   	Priority will be given to productions that hold the most promise for
   benefiting the District by hiring District residents, using local suppliers,
   being bonded and insured, and having a national distribution plan in place.

   3101.5. STATUTORY DISQUALIFICATION
   
   
   
   Any production company that fails to expend at least $500,000 in the District
   and film for five (5) days or more in the District shall be statutorily
   disqualified from receiving grant funds.

   3101.6. PROGRAMMATIC DISQUALIFICATION
   
   
   
   Production companies may be disqualified from the Film DC Grant Program during
   the application process or after the Grant has received preliminary approval,
   based on programmatic considerations, at the discretion of the Director of the
   OMPTD, including, but not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Failure to begin production activities on the date specified in the
   Qualifying Production Letter;
   
   
   
   (b)	A delay in principal photography that exceeds 30 days;
   
   
   
   (c)	Failure to file any required reports;
   
   
   
   (d)	Failure to pay industry standard wages;
   
   
   
   (e)	Failure to submit, upon the conclusion of filming in the District, a
   certified accounting and cost report of production expenditures, prepared in
   accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, that is performed by
   an independent certified public accountant selected and paid for by the
   production company prior to the reimbursement of qualified expenditures. The
   production company is not precluded from engaging its regular independent
   certified public accountant, if applicable, to perform this activity;
   
   
   
   (f)	Engaging in economic transactions, business relationships and business
   structures without substance for the purpose of increasing the amount of the
   incentives or altering the appearances of expenditures or vendors in order to
   meet the qualifications for the incentives;
   
   
   
   (g)	Failure to practice responsible production practices or adhere to the Code
   of Conduct as specified in the California Film Commission’s Filmmaker’s
   Code of Professional Responsibility; or
   
   
   
   (h)	Lack of available funding.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 6061 (June 22, 2007).
