                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION PROCEDURES (ยง 1-3102)

3102.1. The OMPTD will provide application forms upon request to production
   companies that anticipate applying for a grant from the Film DC Grant Program.
   The application will require that specific information be submitted concerning
   the production company, the production, production timelines, total
   anticipated expenditures, anticipated District expenditures and other
   pertinent information.

   3102.2. All financial reports submitted to the OMPTD must be prepared in
   accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and certified by an
   authorized representative of the production company.

   3102.3. The OMPTD will notify the production company of its grant funding
   determination in writing by sending a Qualifying Production Letter. The
   Qualifying Production Letter must be signed by a person authorized to sign on
   behalf of the production company and returned to the OMPTD within 20 business
   days of the date of the letter.

   3102.4. In the event that a production company does not meet the minimum
   program requirements, or the grant application is not accepted or approved for
   any reason, the OMPTD will notify the production company in writing within 10
   business days of its disapproval for the incentives.

   3102.5. In order for the Government of the District of Columbia to reserve
   grant funds for the production company, the production company must begin
   verifiable production activity in the District within 60 days from the date of
   the Qualifying Production Letter and principal photography must begin within
   30 days of the date specified in the Qualifying Production Letter.

   3102.6. OMPTD will schedule a production planning meeting between the
   production company and OMPTD as soon as possible after it receives a signed
   copy of the Qualifying Production Letter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 6061 (June 22, 2007).
