                                  DC REGULATIONS

HEARINGS AND ISSUANCE OF FINAL ORDER (ยง 21-2206)

2206.1. Once a hearing is requested, motions practice, prehearing discovery,
   and the conduct of the hearing shall be in accordance with the D.C.
   Administrative Procedures Act and OAD procedures.

   2206.2. The petitioner shall have the burden of going forward with and of
   proving that the violation occurred as set forth in the proposed compliance or
   cease and desist order, and that the proposed civil penalty, revocation or
   suspension, as the case may be, is appropriate.

   2206.3. Following the establishment of a prima facie case, the person shall
   have the burden of presenting and of going forward with any defense to the
   allegations set forth in the petition. Each matter of controversy shall be
   determined by the ALJ upon a preponderance of the evidence.

   2206.4. If a person scheduled for a hearing does not appear for the hearing,
   and no continuance has been granted, the ALJ may receive evidence and hear
   testimony and may render a decision on the basis of evidence before it.

   2206.5. The ALJ shall inform the parties of an action taken under this
   section.

   2206.6. A decision of the ALJ shall be supported by substantial, reliable, and
   probative evidence pursuant to D.C. Code ยง1-1509 (c) (1992 Repl. Vol.).

   2206.7. The ALJ&#8217;s decision and order shall include findings of fact and
   conclusions of law.

   2206.8. A final compliance order shall also set forth the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The action or actions which must be taken by the person to correct a
   violation or threatened violation of the Act or regulations issued under the
   Act, and may include the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Performance of testing, studies, investigations, monitoring;
   
   
   
   (2)	Performance of comprehensive site assessment;
   
   
   
   (3)	Upgrading of any facilities or systems needed to prevent a reoccurrence of
   the violation;
   
   
   
   (4)	Preparation of corrective action plans;
   
   
   
   (5)	Implementation of remediation plans;
   
   
   
   (6)	Maintenance and submission of records.
   
   
   
   (b)	The amount of any civil penalties or damages to be imposed, as authorized
   by the Act;
   
   
   
   (c)	Authorization for the Director to enter on property to undertake
   assessment and corrective action, if the person fails or refuses to comply
   with an order requiring the person to perform a site assessment or corrective
   action within the time period set forth in the order; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any applicable appeal rights.

   2206.9. A final order suspending, revoking or denying a license, permit or
   certification shall state clearly the action taken, the reasons for the
   action, and any applicable appeal rights.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking publishing at 43 DCR 6347, 6351 (November 29, 1996).
