                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES (ยง 17-4507)

4507.1. The Board may, in its discretion, approve continuing education
   programs and activities that contribute to the growth of an applicant in
   professional competence in the practice of nutrition and that meet the other
   requirements of this section.

   4507.2. The Board may approve the following types of continuing education
   programs, if the programs meet the requirements of ยง 4507.3:
   
   
   
   (a)	An undergraduate or graduate course given at an accredited college or
   university;
   
   
   
   (b)	A seminar related to the discipline of human nutrition;
   
   
   
   (c)	A training or technical assistance workshop in nutrition or a nutrition
   related field;
   
   
   
   (d)	An educational program given at a conference specifically related to the
   discipline of nutrition; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Nutrition related presentations or poster board sessions in professional
   meetings.

   4507.3. To qualify for approval by the Board, a continuing education program
   shall meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be current and relevant to the practice of nutrition and dietetics in its
   subject matter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be developed and taught by individuals with appropriate qualifications and
   credentials; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Be administered or approved by one of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A national, state, or local dietetics organization recognized by the
   Board;
   
   
   
   (2)	A health care facility accredited by the Joint Commission for the
   Accreditation of Hospitals; or
   
   
   
   (3)	A college or university approved by an accrediting body recognized by the
   Council on Postsecondary Accreditation or the Secretary of the United Stated
   Department of Education.

   4507.4. The Board may issue and update a list of approved continuing education
   programs.

   4507.5. An applicant shall have the burden of verifying whether a program is
   approved by the Board pursuant to this section prior to attending the program.
   The applicant shall also have the burden of verifying the number of continuing
   education credits the Board will accept for a program under this section.

   4507.6. The Board may approve the following continuing education activities by
   an applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Serving as an instructor or speaker at a conference, a seminar, workshop,
   or in-service training;
   
   
   
   (b)	Publishing a book or a chapter in a book, or publishing a book review,
   article, abstract, or paper in a professional journal or bulletin; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Participating in research as a principal investigator or research
   assistant.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 3518, 3524 (May 13, 1988); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 85 (January 6, 2006); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 2597 (March 14, 2008).
