                                  DC REGULATIONS

ACTIVITY REPORTS (§ 3-5802)

5802.1. Each registrant shall file an activity report, on a form prescribed by
   the Director, for each person from whom compensation is received during the
   reporting period.

   5802.2. Each activity report shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A complete and current statement of the information required to be
   	supplied pursuant to § 5800;
   
   
   
   (b)	Total expenditures on lobbying broken down into the following 	categories:
   
   
   
   (i)	Office expenses;
   
   
   
   (ii)	Advertising and publications;
   
   
   
   (iii)	Compensation to others;
   
   
   
   (iv)	Personal sustenance, lodging, and travel, if compensated; and
   
   
   
   (v)	Other expenses;
   
   
   
   (c)	Each expenditure of $50 or more shall also be itemized by the date, name,
   	and address of the recipient, and the amount and purpose of the 	expenditure;
   
   
   
   (d)	Each political expenditure, loan, gift, honorarium, or contribution of $50
   	or more made by the registrant or anyone acting on behalf of the registrant
   	to benefit an official in the legislative or executive branch, a member of
   	his or her staff or household, or a campaign or testimonial committee
   	established for the benefit of the official, shall be itemized by date,
   	beneficiary, amount, and circumstances of the transaction, including the
   	aggregate of all expenditures that are less than $50;
   
   
   
   (e)	Each official in the executive or legislative branch and any member of the
   	official’s staff, including personal and committee staff, who has a
   business 	relationship or a professional services relationship with the
   registrant shall 	be identified by name and the nature of the business
   relationship with the 	registrant;
   
   
   
   (f)	Each official in the executive or legislative branch with whom the
   	registrant has had written or oral communications during the reporting
   	periods related to lobbying activities conducted by the registrant shall also
   	be included in the report, identifying the official with whom the
   	communication was made; and
   
   (g)	Each person to whom the registrant has given compensation to lobby on 	his
   or her behalf shall also be listed in the report.

   5802.3. Each registrant shall obtain and preserve all accounts, bills,
   receipts, books, papers, and documents necessary to substantiate the activity
   reports required to be made pursuant to this section for 5 years from the date
   of filing of the report containing these items. These materials shall be made
   available for inspection upon requests by the Director after reasonable
   notice.

   5802.4. Each registrant who does not file a report required by this section
   for a given period is presumed not to be receiving or expending funds that are
   required to be reported under this section.

   5802.5. A registrant shall exclude from activity reports any transactions
   related to the registrant’s exempt status, if any, under § 5801.

   5802.6. No later than 10 days after a registrant files a registration form
   with the Director he or she shall publish on the Board’s website a summary
   of all information required to be submitted under this section.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 2852 (March 8, 2013).
