                                  DC REGULATIONS

DETERMINING ORDER OF CANDIDATES NAMES ON THE BALLOT WITHIN EACH CONTEST (§
3-1617)

1617.1. In each primary, general and special election, the Board shall
   determine, by lot, the order of the candidates names on the ballot in each
   contest.

   1617.2. The Board shall notify, by first class mail, each candidate for the
   offices appearing on the ballot of the date and time of the lottery to
   determine ballot position.

   1617.3. The lottery to determine ballot position in a primary or special
   election shall be conducted in the following manner:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name of each candidate in a contest shall be typed or written on a
   slip of paper and placed in a container;
   
   
   
   (b)	Each candidate, or his or her designated representative, shall draw from
   the container one slip of paper;
   
   
   
   (c)	In the absence of a candidate, or his or her designated representative,
   the Board shall assign a registered voter or one of its employees to draw for
   the absent candidate;
   
   
   
   (d)	The lottery for ballot position shall be conducted such that the names on
   the slips of paper shall be hidden from the view of the individual drawing;
   and
   
   
   
   (e)	The candidate whose name is pulled first from the container shall have his
   or her name appear first on the ballot; the candidate whose name is pulled
   second shall have his or her name placed second on the ballot; and this order
   shall continue until all candidate ballot positions have been determined.

   1617.4. In the event of the death, withdrawal or disqualification of a
   candidate from the ballot prior to the printing of the ballot, the position of
   each candidate which appears beneath the name of the candidate who died,
   withdrew or was disqualified, shall be raised to the next higher position.

   1617.5. The lottery for ballot position in a general election shall be
   conducted in the same manner as for primary and special elections; provided,
   that the Board may request that the chairperson of the local party committee
   of each party which conducts a primary, or his or her designee, draw the
   ballot position for the party’s nominee.

   1617.6. In the absence of the chairperson of the local party committee, or his
   or her designee, the Board shall designate a registered voter or one of its
   employees to draw ballot position for that party’s nominee.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 D.C. Reg. 8364, 8371-72 (December
   15, 1989).
