                                  DC REGULATIONS

STANDARDS OF CONDUCT (§ 17-8612)

A registrant shall adhere to standards set forth in the “Ethical Principles
   
   of Psychologists and Code of Conduct” as published from time to time
   
   by the American Psychological Association.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A psychology associate shall not reveal to another person a communication made
   to the psychology associate by a client about a
   
   matter where the client has utilized the services of the psychology 	associate
   in a professional capacity.  This section shall not
   
   apply to:
   
   
   
   (a)  	A case conference with other mental health professionals or with
   
               physicians or surgeons;
   
   
   
   (b)	A case in which the client authorized, in writing, the psychology
   
   	associate to reveal a communication;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	A case where an immediate threat of serious physical harm to an
   
   	identifiable victim is communicated to the psychology associate by
   
   	a client;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Evidence in criminal cases where the accused is charged
   
   	with causing the death of, or inflicting injuries upon, a human
   
   	being, and the disclosure is required in the interest of public
   
   	justice;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Evidence relating to the mental competency or sanity of an accused person in
   a criminal trial where the accused person raises the defense of insanity or
   where the court is required under prevailing law to raise the defense sua
   sponte, or in the pretrial or post-trial proceedings involving a criminal case
   where a question arises concerning the mental condition of an accused person
   or convicted person;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Evidence relating to the mental competency or sanity of a child alleged to be
   delinquent, neglected, or in need of supervision in any proceeding before the
   Family Division of the District of Columbia Superior Court;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Evidence in criminal or civil cases where a person is alleged to have
   defrauded the District of Columbia or federal government in relation to
   receiving or providing services under the District of Columbia medical
   assistance program authorized by Title 19 of the Social Security Act, approved
   July 30, 1965 (79 Stat. 343; 42 U.S.C. §§ 1396, et seq.)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Proceedings conducted by the Office of Administrative
   
   	Hearings where the disclosure of confidential communications is
   
   	necessary to defend against charges that the psychology associate
   
   	has violated provisions of this chapter or the Act; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Information regarding incidents of child abuse as required pursuant to the
   Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect Act of 1977, effective September 23,
   1977 (D.C. Law 2-22; D.C. Official Code § 4-1321.02(b)).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A psychology associate shall refer to himself or herself as a “psychology
   
   associate under the supervision of (name and license number of supervisor)”
   in all written and oral communications relating to the provision of
   psychological services.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A psychology associate shall not refer to himself or herself as a
   
   psychologist, either orally or in writing, and shall discourage others from
   
   making these representations.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A supervisor or psychology associate shall inform clients of the
   
   supervision arrangement and its possible implications for
   insurancereimbursements and confidentiality.

   8612.6. A psychology associate may not engage in, or give the appearance of,
   
   		practicing independently of the supervisor.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
                A supervisor and a psychology associate shall ensure that parties
   who are
   
   billed for services by the psychology associate are informed that the
   
   supervisor has full responsibility.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
                A supervisor and a psychology associate shall cosign all reports
   related to
   
   psychological services provided by the psychology associate.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3246, 3256 (April 15,
   2011).
