                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES (§ 17-8607)

8607.1. Only continuing education programs and activities approved by the
   Board shall be counted toward meeting the required number of continuing
   education hours.

   8607.2. The Board may, in its discretion, approve continuing education
   programs and activities that contribute to the growth of an applicant in
   professional competence in the practice of psychology and which meet the other
   requirements of this section.

   8607.3. The Board may approve the following types of continuing education
   			programs if the programs meet the requirement of § 8607.3:
   
   
   
   (a)  	A seminar or workshop;
   
   
   
   (b)  	An education program given at a conference;
   
   
   
   (c)  	In-service training; and
   
   
   
   (d)  	An online or home study course; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	An undergraduate or graduate course given at an accredited college or
   university provided that the undergraduate course shall be acceptable only if
   the Board determines that the course is required or needed by the registrant
   as an introductory component of a professional development plan for the
   purpose of entering an area of psychology for which the registrant is
   currently not qualified to practice independently.

   8607.4. To qualify for Board approval, a continuing education program shall:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be current in its subject matter;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Be developed  by qualified individuals of whom one shall be a psychologist;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Be taught or facilitated by at least one (1) qualified individual; and
   
   
   
   (d) 	Meet one (1) of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program shall be administered by an accredited college or university;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program shall be approved by a Board-recognized
   
   	 psychology organization or accredited health care facility; or
   
   
   
   (3)  	The program is approved by the Board.  In order to be          approved
   by the Board, the program sponsor shall submit to the Board for review at
   least sixty (60) days prior to the start of the program the following:
   
   
   
   (A)  	The sponsor’s name and address;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The program’s name;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The location;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A description and specific goals;
   
   
   
   (E)   	The target audience’s maximum size and professional level (Master’s
   or doctorate);
   
   
   
   (F)   	The program’s tentative or actual schedule, including the allotted
   time for lunch, breaks and topic headings or subheadings;
   
   
   
   (G)   	An appropriately constructed evaluation form and    	     continuing
   education completion verification document;
   
   
   
   (H)   	The name and credentials of each instructor or speaker including
   relevant education, training, research, publications, work samples(s), honor
   or awards, special recognition; and
   
   
   
   (I)    	If applicable, the evaluation results of comparable
   
           	programs or activities previously conducted by the
   
           	sponsor.

   8607.5. The Board shall maintain a list of approved continuing education
   programs on its website.

   8607.6. An applicant shall have the burden of verifying whether a program is
   approved by the Board pursuant to this section prior to attending the program.
   
   
   
   8607.7             The Board may approve the following continuing education
   activities:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Serving as an instructor or speaker at a conference, seminar, workshop, or
   in-service training;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Being the author or coauthor of an article (including “critiques” and
   “responses”) or a book review in a professional journal or periodical, or
   author or coauthor of a book or book chapter;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Serving as an editor (including “associate” and “junior” levels) for a
   professional journal, periodical, or book;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Serving as an article reviewer for a professional journal or periodical; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Having developed an online or home study continuing education course.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3246, 3250 (April 15,
   2011); as corrected by Errata Notice published at 59 DCR 8356, 8357 (July 13,
   2012).
