                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPERVISION OF PSYCHOLOGY ASSOCIATES (§ 17-8611)

8611.1. A supervisor of a psychology associate shall supervise only in those
   areas
   
   		within the supervisor’s competence based on the supervisor’s education,
   
   		training, and experience. The supervisor shall delegate supervisory
   
   		responsibility to another psychologist or psychiatrist to ensure that the
   
   		psychology associate receives appropriate supervision in areas outside of
   
   		the expertise of the original supervisor.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Appropriate supervision is determined by the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Education, training, and experience of the psychology associate;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Nature and extent of the services to be performed by the psychology associate;
   and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Setting in which the services are to be performed.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A supervisor may supervise a maximum of five (5) psychology associates
   
   at any one (1) time.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A supervisor shall ensure that a psychology associate is practicing within
   
   the scope of the psychology associate’s competencies as demonstrated by the
   psychology associate’s documented training and experience in a
   
   particular area of practice.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A supervisor shall maintain appropriate documentation of the nature and
   
   extent of the supervision provided or delegated, including the dates,
   duration, and focus of the supervisory sessions.  The supervisor shall provide
   a reason for any delegation of supervisory responsibility.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Pursuant to § 8611.5 a supervisor shall provide documentation requested
   
   upon demand by an individual authorized by the board.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A supervisor shall not engage in supervision of a psychology associate
   
   who is a friend or relative.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A supervisor shall immediately report to the Board, by certified mail, the
   
   date of termination of the supervisory relationship with a psychology
   
   associate.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A supervisor shall be responsible for all services provided by a
   
   psychology associate under the supervisor’s supervision.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A psychology associate shall inform the supervisor of all complaints,
   
   formal or informal, about the services provided by the psychology associate.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 3246, 3255 (April 15,
   2011).
