                                  DC REGULATIONS

PATIENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES (ยง 29-5108)

5108.1. Each Provider shall develop a written statement of patient rights and
   responsibilities consistent with the requirements of this section, which shall
   be given to each patient in advance of receiving services or during the
   initial assessment before the initiation of services.

   5108.2. The written statement of patient rights and responsibilities shall be
   available for distribution to the general public.

   5108.3. Each Provider shall develop policies which ensure that each patient
   receiving services has the following rights:
   
   
   
   (a)	To be treated with courtesy, dignity and respect;
   
   
   
   (b)	To control his or her own household and lifestyle;
   
   
   
   (c)	To participate in the planning of his or her care and treatment;
   
   
   
   (d)	To receive treatment, care and services consistent with the plan of care
   and to have the plan of care modified for achievement of outcomes;
   
   
   
   (e)	To receive services by competent personnel who can communicate with the
   patient;
   
   
   
   (f)	To refuse all or part of any treatment, care or service and be informed of
   the consequences;
   
   
   
   (g)	To be free from mental and physical abuse, neglect and exploitation from
   persons providing services;
   
   
   
   (h)	To be assured that for purposes of record confidentiality, the disclosure
   of the contents of the patient&#8217;s records is subject to all the
   provisions of applicable District and federal laws;
   
   
   
   (i)	To voice a complaint or grievance regarding treatment or care, lack of
   respect for personal property by persons providing services without fear of
   reprisal;
   
   
   
   (j)	To have access to his or her records; and
   
   
   
   (k)	To be informed orally and in writing of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Services to be provided, including any limits;
   
   
   
   (2)	The amount charged for each service, the amount of payment required by the
   patient and the billing procedures, if applicable;
   
   
   
   (3)	Whether services are covered by health insurance, Medicare, Medicaid or
   any other third party sources;
   
   
   
   (4)	Acceptance, denial, reduction or termination of services;
   
   
   
   (5)	Complaint and appeal procedures;
   
   
   
   (6)	The name, address and telephone number of the provider; and
   
   
   
   (7)	The telephone number of the Medicare Home Health Hotline and hours of
   operation.

   5108.4. Each patient shall be responsible for the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Treating all Provider personnel with respect and dignity;
   
   
   
   (b)	Providing accurate information when requested;
   
   
   
   (c)	Informing Provider personnel when instructions are not understood or
   cannot be followed; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Cooperating in making a safe environment for care within the home.

   5108.5. Each Provider shall take appropriate steps to ensure that each
   patient, including patients who cannot read or have a language or
   communication barrier, has received the information required pursuant to this
   section. Each Provider shall document in the records the steps taken to ensure
   that each patient has received the information.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 3957 (May 23, 2003).
