                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATION AND STAFFING (ยง 29-5102)

5102.1. Each Provider shall have a current organizational chart that clearly
   describes the organizational structure, staff responsibilities and lines of
   authority.

   5102.2. Each Provider shall provide to all staff and subcontractors a current
   policy manual which sets forth all of its policies and procedures.

   5102.3. Each policy manual shall include, but not be limited to, the following
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the services to be provided;
   
   
   
   (b)	Procedures for patient care;
   
   
   
   (c)	The reimbursement methodology or fee schedules;
   
   
   
   (d)	Operational schedules;
   
   
   
   (e)	Quality assurance standards;
   
   
   
   (f)	A statement of patient rights and responsibilities;
   
   
   
   (g)	Financial and record-keeping requirements;
   
   
   
   (h)	Procedures for emergency care;
   
   
   
   (i)	A description of staff and personnel policies, which shall be reviewed by
   designated Provider staff annually, revised as necessary and dated at time of
   review;
   
   
   
   (j)	A description of each staff position and procedures for employee hiring,
   evaluations, grievances and in-service training; and
   
   
   
   (k)	An up-to-date listing of professional staff licensure and registration
   information.

   5102.4. Each Provider shall be staffed with individuals who are qualified to
   perform the following functions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Verify and document each patient&#8217;s Medicaid eligibility;
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide quality services in accordance with the plan of care, including
   the proper assignment and supervision of home health aides; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Coordinate the provision of services provided by the home health aides
   with other home health services, as appropriate.

   5102.5. Each Provider shall employ a registered nurse who is responsible for
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Performing the initial evaluation of the patient and regularly
   reevaluating the patient&#8217;s needs;
   
   
   
   (b)	Monitoring the quality of the services on a regular basis;
   
   
   
   (c)	Supervising the home health aide, in accordance with the requirements set
   forth in ยง 5102.7 through ยง 5102.09;
   
   
   
   (d)	Developing and reviewing the plan of care and preparing clinical and
   progress notes;
   
   
   
   (e)	Coordinating services and informing the physician and others involved in
   patient care of changes in the patient&#8217;s condition and needs;
   
   
   
   (f)	Gathering information regarding the patient&#8217;s condition and the need
   for continued care; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Counseling the patient and the family regarding meeting nursing and
   related needs.

   5102.6. The registered nurse shall visit each patient within 48 hours of
   initiating services to monitor the quality of services provided.

   5102.7. If the patient is receiving skilled nursing care, a registered nurse
   shall be responsible for the supervision of the home health aide and shall
   make an on-site visit to the patient no less frequently than every 2 weeks to
   ensure that the aide is properly caring for the patient.

   5102.8. If the patient is receiving physical therapy, occupational therapy, or
   speech-language pathology services, supervision may be provided by the
   physical therapist, occupational therapist, speech pathologist or registered
   nurse, who shall make an on-site visit to the patient no less frequently than
   every 2 weeks to ensure that the aide is properly caring for the patient.

   5102.9. The registered nurse may provide an additional supervisory visit to
   each patient if the situation warrants an additional visit, such as the
   assignment of a new aide or change in the patient&#8217;s health status.

   5102.10. Each Provider shall discontinue services when such services are no
   longer required or have been determined inadequate to meet a patient&#8217;s
   needs.

   5102.11. Each Provider shall notify MAA and the patient or patient&#8217;s
   representative, in writing, no less than seven (7) calendar days prior to
   discharge or referral. The seven (7) day written notice shall not be required,
   and oral notice may be given, if the discharge or referral is the result of:
   
   
   
   (a)	A medical emergency;
   
   
   
   (b)	A physician&#8217;s order to admit the patient to an inpatient facility;
   
   
   
   (c)	A determination by the home care agency that the discharge or referral is
   necessary to protect the health, safety or welfare of agency staff; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A determination by a physician that the condition that necessitated the
   provision of services no longer exists.

   5102.12. If the patient seeks to change providers, the Provider shall assist
   the patient in selecting a new provider and cannot abandon the patient until
   the transfer has been successfully completed.

   5102.13. Each Provider shall immediately terminate the services of a home
   health aide and instruct the aide to discontinue all services to the patient,
   in any case where the Provider believes that the patient&#8217;s physical or
   mental well-being is endangered by the care or lack of care, provided by the
   aide or that the patient&#8217;s property is at risk.

   5102.14. Each Provider shall conduct a performance evaluation of each home
   health aide after the first three (3) months of employment and annually
   thereafter.

   5102.15. Each Provider shall develop contingency staffing plans to provide
   coverage for each patient in the event the assigned home health aide cannot
   provide the services or is terminated.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 3957 (May 23, 2003).
