                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (ยง 29-5100)

5100.1. These rules establish the standards and conditions of participation
   for providers of home health aide services (&#8220;Provider&#8221;) under the
   District of Columbia Medicaid Program (&#8220;Medicaid Program&#8221;).

   5100.2. A home care agency seeking reimbursement for home health aide services
   shall meet the conditions of participation for home health agencies set forth
   in Sections 1861(o) and 1891(e) of the Social Security Act and 42 CFR 484, and
   shall comply with the requirements set forth in the Health-Care and Community
   Residence Facility Act, Hospice and Home-Care Licensure Act of 1983, effective
   Feb. 24, 1984 (D.C. Law 5-48; D.C. Official Code, ยง 44-501 et seq), and
   implementing rules.

   5100.3. An entity seeking to participate as a provider of home health aide
   services under the Medicaid Program shall file an application on forms
   provided by the Department of Health, Medical Assistance Program (MAA).

   5100.4. The Provider Application shall contain, but not be limited to, the
   following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name and address of the Provider organization and location of all of the
   Provider&#8217;s places of business in the District of Columbia and elsewhere
   in the United States;
   
   
   
   (b)	Names and addresses of the owners of the Provider organization;
   
   
   
   (c)	If the Provider organization is a corporation, the application shall
   include the names and addresses of all persons having a five percent (5%) or
   greater ownership interest and the names and addresses of all officers and
   directors of the organization; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The names and license numbers of the registered nurse or other appropriate
   health care professional who is responsible for supervising the home health
   aide.

   5100.5. A provider may contract with a personnel staffing agency for staff to
   perform home health aide services. Agreements between the provider and a
   contractor for the provision of home health aide services shall be in writing
   and shall include at a minimum, the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the services to be provided;
   
   
   
   (b)	Location of where the services are to be provided;
   
   
   
   (c)	The manner in which the services are controlled, coordinated and evaluated
   by the home care agency;
   
   
   
   (d)	The procedure for developing plans of care, submitting clinical and
   progress notes, scheduling of visits, preparing patient evaluations and other
   designated reports;
   
   
   
   (e)	The procedures used for managing and monitoring the work of personnel
   employed on a contractual basis;
   
   
   
   (f)	The procedure for payment for services and payment terms for services
   furnished;
   
   
   
   (g)	The duration of the agreement, including provisions for renewal, if
   applicable; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Assurances that the contractor will comply with:
   
   
   
   (1)	All applicable agency policies, including the assurance that contract
   personnel meet the qualifications and fulfill the responsibilities of agency
   employees in accordance with these rules;
   
   
   
   (2)	All insurance and bonding requirements as set forth in section 5101 of
   these rules; and
   
   
   
   (3)	All applicable federal and District laws and rules.

   5100.6. A Provider must be certified by MAA as being in compliance with all
   requirements set forth in this chapter before participating in this Program.

   5100.7. Each Provider shall enter into an agreement with MAA that specifies
   the services to be provided, methods of operation, and financial and legal
   requirements.

   5100.8. Each Provider shall satisfy the requirements set forth in Title VI of
   the Civil Rights Law of 1964, including Section 504, which prohibits
   discrimination against the handicapped and comply with all applicable federal
   and District laws and rules.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 3957 (May 23, 2003).
