                                  DC REGULATIONS

AUDITS AND REVIEWS (ยง 29-5110)

5110.1. MAA shall perform ongoing audits to ensure that Medicaid payments are
   consistent with efficiency, economy and quality of care and made in accordance
   with federal and District rules governing Medicaid.

   5110.2. The audit process shall be routinely conducted by MAA to determine, by
   statistically valid scientific sampling, the appropriateness of services
   rendered and billed to Medicaid.

   5110.3. Each Provider shall allow access, during an on-site audit or review by
   MAA, other District of Columbia government officials and representatives of
   the United States Department of Health and Human Services, to relevant records
   and program documentation.

   5110.4. If MAA denies a claim, MAA shall recoup, by the most expeditious means
   available, those monies erroneously paid to the Provider for denied claims,
   following the period of Administrative Review set forth in section 5111 of
   these rules.

   5110.5. The recoupment amounts for denied claims shall be determined by the
   following formula: A fraction shall be calculated with the numerator
   consisting of the number of denied paid claims resulting from the audited
   sample. The denominator shall be the total number of paid claims from the
   audit sample. This fraction will be multiplied by the total dollars paid by
   MAA to the Provider during the audit period, to determine the amount recouped.
   For example, if a Provider received Medicaid reimbursement of ten thousand
   dollars ($ 10,000) during the audit period, and during a review of the claims
   from the audited sample, it was determined that 10 claims out of 100 claims
   are denied, then ten percent (10%) of of the amount reimbursed by Medicaid
   during the audit period, or one thousand dollars ($ 1000), would be recouped.

   5110.6. MAA shall issue a Notice of Recoupment (NR), which sets forth the
   reasons for the recoupment, including the specific reference to the particular
   sections of the statute, rules, or provider agreement, the amount to be
   recouped, and the procedures for requesting an administrative review.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 3957 (May 23, 2003).
