                                  DC REGULATIONS

NEW CERTIFICATES OF BIRTH FOLLOWING ADOPTION, INTERMARRIAGE, PARENTAGE
DETERMINATION, OR PARENTAGE ACKNOWLEDGMENT (§ 29-2809)

2809.1. A new certificate of birth for a person who is adopted shall be
   prepared and registered in accordance with D.C. Official Code § 16-314.

   2809.2. The content of the new birth record shall be in accordance with the
   final decree of adoption.

   2809.3. If the natural parents marry after the birth of a child, a new
   certificate of birth shall be prepared by the Registrar for a child born in
   the District upon receipt of a sworn acknowledgement of paternity that is
   signed by the natural parents of the child together with a certified copy of
   the parents’ marriage record.

   2809.4. If another man’s name is shown as the father of the child on the
   original certificate, a new certificate shall be prepared only when a
   determination of paternity is made by a court of competent jurisdiction or
   following adoption.

   2809.5. A new certificate of birth shall be prepared by the Registrar for a
   child born in the District upon receipt of a certified copy of a determination
   of paternity by the Court, except that the Registrar shall not act in response
   to an order by a court that is outside the District if the parent, parents, or
   other persons having legal custody of the child request that a new certificate
   not be prepared.

   2809.6. If the surname of the child is not decreed by a court of competent
   jurisdiction, the parent, parents, or other persons having legal custody of
   the child shall specify in writing the surname to be placed on the
   certificate.

   2809.7. A new certificate of birth shall be prepared by the Registrar for a
   child born out of wedlock in the District upon receipt of a sworn
   acknowledgement of parentage signed by both parents stating the child’s
   surname as it is to appear on the new certificate.

   2809.8. If another name is shown as the father of the child on the original
   certificate, a new certificate shall be prepared only when a determination of
   parentage is made by a court of competent jurisdiction or following adoption.

   2809.9. The new certificate of birth form prepared after adoption,
   intermarriage of parents, parentage determination by a court, or
   acknowledgement of parentage shall include the following and any other
   information necessary to complete the certificate:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name of the child;
   
   
   
   (b)	Sex of the child;
   
   
   
   (c)	Date and place of birth as transcribed from the original certificate;
   
   
   
   (d)	Names and personal particulars of the adoptive parents or the natural
   parents, whichever is, appropriate;
   
   
   
   (e)	Name of the attendant at birth, written or typed;
   
   
   
   (f)	Birth number assigned to the original birth certificate; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Original filing date.

   2809.10. The information necessary to locate the existing certificate and to
   complete the new certificate shall be submitted on forms prescribed or
   approved by the Registrar.

   2809.11. The original certificate and all documents pertaining to the issuance
   of the new certificate following adoption, paternity determination and
   paternity acknowledgement shall be sealed and shall not be subject to
   inspection except by the Registrar for the purpose of administering the vital
   records system or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.

   2809.12. Each new certificate of birth shall be prepared on a form that is
   current at the time of preparation of the new certificate.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 38 DCR 781, 788 (January 25, 1991); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 1664 (February 23, 2007).
