                                  DC REGULATIONS

AMENDMENT OF BIRTH CERTIFICATE (§ 29-2818)

2818.1. Application to amend a birth certificate may be made in accordance
   with § 2817 and this section by the parent of parents of the registrant, the
   guardian, the registrant if eighteen (18) years of age or over, of the
   individual responsible for the item for which the amendment is sought.

   2818.2. Until the registrant’s first birthday, given names on a certificate
   of birth may be added, amended, or deleted upon written request from any one
   (1) of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	By both parents together;
   
   
   
   (b)	By the mother when no father’s name appears on the certificate;
   
   
   
   (c)	By the father in the case of the death or incapacity of the mother;
   
   
   
   (d)	By the mother in the case of the death or incapacity of the father; or
   
   
   
   (e)	By the guardian or agency having legal custody of the registrant.

   2818.3. Within five (5) years from the registrant’s date of birth, given
   names for a child whose birth was recorded without given names may be added to
   the certificate upon written request of any one (1) of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	By both parents together;
   
   
   
   (b)	By the mother when no father’s name appears on the certificate;
   
   
   
   (c)	By the father in the case of the death or incapacity of the mother;
   
   
   
   (d)	By the mother in the case of the death or incapacity of the father; or
   
   
   
   (e)	By the guardian or agency having legal custody of the registrant.

   2818.4. Within five (5) years from a registrant’s date of birth, the
   registrant’s given name or names may be changed on the birth certificate in
   the manner prescribed in § 2818.3, upon submission of documentation which, in
   the discretion of the Registrar, establishes consistent and legitimate use of
   the name or names.

   2818.5. After five (5) years from a registrant’s date of birth, probative
   documentary proof of use of the given names as of or before the age of entry
   into school shall be presented to the Registrar in order to add a given name.

   2818.6. A certified copy of a change of name order from a court of competent
   jurisdiction shall be submitted to the Registrar to change a registrant’s
   name on a certificate of birth after one (1) year from the date of birth.

   2818.7. Except as otherwise provided in this section, after one (1) year from
   the date of birth, the procedures that apply to all other amendments to vital
   records shall apply to amendments of a given name when it has been entered
   incorrectly on the birth certificate.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 38 DCR 781, 795 (January 25, 1991).
