                                  DC REGULATIONS

DELAYED REGISTRATION OF BIRTH[COLON] GENERAL (§ 29-2803)

2803.1. Each certificate of birth filed after five (5) days, but within one
   (1) year from the date of birth, shall be registered on the standard form of
   live birth certificate in the manner prescribed by D.C. Code, 2001 Ed. §
   7-207. The certificate shall not be marked “Delayed”.

   2803.2. The Registrar may, in the exercise of his or her discretion, require
   additional evidence in support of the facts of birth and an explanation of why
   the certificate of birth was not filed within the required five (5) days.

   2803.3. Each certificate registered more than one (1) calendar year after the
   date of birth shall be registered on a delayed certificate of birth form.

   2803.4. Any person born in the District whose birth has not been recorded in
   the District may request the registration of his or her delayed certificate of
   birth.

   2803.5. A request for the registration of a delayed certificate of birth may
   also be made by the parents, guardian, adult next of kin, or any other adult
   acting for the person.

   2803.6. Each delayed certificate of birth for which registration is sought
   shall be signed and sworn to before a notary by the person whose birth is to
   be registered if the person is eighteen (18) years of age or over and is
   competent to sign and swear to the accuracy of the facts in the document or
   signed and sworn to in the same manner by one (1) of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A parent or guardian of the registrant;
   
   
   
   (b)	The next of kin of the registrant, if over eighteen (18) years of age; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Any adult acting on behalf of the registrant.

   2803.7. The minimum facts which must be established by documentary evidence in
   a delayed registration of birth, shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Full name of the person at the time of birth;
   
   
   
   (b)	Date and place of birth;
   
   
   
   (c)	Full maiden name of the mother; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Full name of the father; except that if the mother was not married either
   at the time of the conception or birth or between conception and birth, the
   name of the father shall not be entered on the delayed certificate except as
   provided in § 2804.2 of these rules.

   2803.8. When evidence is presented that reflects a legal change of status by
   adoption, intermarriage of the parents after birth, paternity determination or
   acknowledgement of paternity, a new delayed certificate may be established to
   reflect the change.

   2803.9. When a new delayed certificate is registered, the existing certificate
   and the evidence upon which the new certificate is based shall be placed in a
   special file, which shall not be subject to inspection except upon order of
   the Court or by the Registrar for purposes of properly administering the vital
   records system.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 38 DCR 781, 784 (January 25, 1991).
