                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION PROCESS (ยง 29-6602)

6602.1. A qualified individual&#8217;s eligibility for IDA benefits shall
   begin on the first of the month following the month that he or she applied for
   IDA or the month following the month in which his or her application for SSI
   was filed with the SSA, whichever is later.

   6602.2. Each individual shall have the right to file an application for IDA on
   the same day that he or she contacts the Income Maintenance Administration
   (IMA).

   6602.3. Each application for IDA shall be submitted in person by the applicant
   or his or her authorized representative at an IMA designated service center,
   using the Combined Application that is used to apply for multiple programs.
   The application shall be considered filed when it is on the prescribed form,
   contains a name and an address, unless the person is homeless, has a signature
   and a face-to- face interview is completed.

   6602.4. Any individual or spouse of a married couple may file an application
   for IDA. The applicant may designate an authorized representative to act on
   his or her behalf.

   6602.5. A face-to-face interview with the applicant or his or her authorized
   representative is required for all applications for IDA. During the
   application interview, the IMA Social Service Representative (SSR) shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Inform the applicant of his or her rights and responsibilities;
   
   
   
   (b)	Explain the program and related services;
   
   
   
   (c)	Outline the conditions of eligibility and indicate what verification and
   information are necessary to determine eligibility;
   
   
   
   (d)	Advise the applicant of the opportunity to register to vote;
   
   
   
   (e)	Notify the applicant that the information he or she provides will be
   matched by the computer with information from other local, state and federal
   agencies;
   
   
   
   (f)	Complete the Authorization for Reimbursement of Interim Assistance Form;
   
   
   
   (g)	Complete SSA Form 1696-U4, Appointment of Representative, authorizing an
   IMA-designated organization to act as the applicant&#8217;s representative to
   SSA;
   
   
   
   (h)	Issue medical report forms, as needed;
   
   
   
   (i)	Complete a social information form; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Explore and resolve any unclear or incomplete information.

   6602.6. A final determination shall be made within sixty (60) days, counting
   from the day after the application was filed. If by the sixtieth (60th) day
   following the date of application, the applicant has not provided all
   verifications, the Department shall issue a denial notice and deny the
   application. An applicant shall be given an extension of up to fifteen (15)
   days to establish eligibility as stated in subsection 6603.2.

   6602.7. If all financial and non-financial conditions of eligibility are met
   and funds are currently available, the Department shall approve the benefits.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 4948 (June 20, 2003).
