                                  DC REGULATIONS

REFUND POLICIES (ยง 16-1211)

1211.1. Each school shall furnish the Department with a schedule of its
   tuition and fees and its prepaid tuition plan and refund policy.

   1211.2. Each student shall be provided seventy-two (72) hours to rescind any
   contract and repayment of all fees and tuition. This period will commence from
   the date of the signing but will not include or end on any Saturday or Sunday
   or legal holiday.

   1211.3. Each student shall be provided, on a separate sheet, notice of the
   student&#8217;s right to rescind the contract with seventy-two (72) hours of
   signing and notice of the fact that, upon rescission, the student will be
   returned all monies advanced to the school.

   1211.4. Each student shall be provided a copy of the school&#8217;s tuition
   plan and refund policy at the time of enrollment.

   1211.5. Each school&#8217;s refund policy shall be approved by the Department
   only when it is such that the amount retained by the school does not exceed an
   amount calculated in accordance with the following standards:
   
   
   
   (a)	The enrollment or registration fee shall be separately stated and the
   non-refundable portion thereof shall either be twenty percent (20%) of the
   total cost of the course or fifty dollars ($ 50), whichever is less; Provided,
   that this refund policy shall apply only after the seventy-two (72) hour
   period immediately following signing has expired;
   
   
   
   (b)	All monies paid in excess of the nonrefundable portion of the enrollment
   or registration fee shall be refunded when an enrolled student requests, in
   the manner provided in the contract, cancellation before his or her scheduled
   class(es) begin(s); Provided, that this provision shall not apply to
   non-immigrant alien students as defined in ยง 1499; and
   
   
   
   (c)	If a student enters training and withdraws or is discontinued from
   training prior to completion of seventy-five percent (75%) of the scheduled
   program, the school shall refund to the student a sum which does not vary more
   than ten percent (10%) from the exact pro rata portion of refundable tuition
   unexpended by the student.

   1211.6. The prorated amount under ยง 1211.5(c) shall be determined by the
   ratio of the number of weeks or lessons in series serviced by the school of
   instruction completed by the student to the total number of weeks of
   instruction offered. Any portion of a week&#8217;s attendance by a student
   shall be considered a full week&#8217;s attendance for the purpose of this
   section. In the case of correspondence schools, any portion of a lesson in
   series shall be considered as a completed series.

   1211.7. No school shall request nor accept more than ten percent (10%) of the
   total tuition prior to commencement of the program or schedule. This
   requirement shall not apply to non-immigrant alien students.

   1211.8. Each school shall make every effort to ensure that enrolled students
   intend to complete the respective schedules or wish to withdraw.

   1211.9. Adequate records shall be kept to ensure that students who delay in
   requesting a refund are accommodated; Provided, that the school is not
   required to honor a refund request submitted subsequent to the end of the
   scheduled program for which the student was enrolled.

   1211.10. Any refund required to be made to a nonimmigrant alien student by the
   provisions of this section shall be payable to that student as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Within thirty (30) days after the Immigration and Naturalization Service
   of the United States has certified to the school which is obligated to make
   the refund that the non-immigrant alien student has departed from the United
   States; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Only in the legal currency of the country of which the non-immigrant alien
   student is a citizen.
