                                  DC REGULATIONS

RE-EXAMINATION REQUIREMENTS (ยง 18-111)

111.1. The Director, having good cause to believe that any person is
   incompetent or otherwise not qualified to be licensed, may, after at least
   five (5) days notice, require that person to submit to an examination. Upon
   the conclusion of the examination, the Director shall take action as may be
   appropriate and may suspend or revoke the license or may issue a license
   subject to restriction(s) authorized in ยง 109.

   111.2. Refusal or neglect to submit to the examination shall be grounds for
   suspension or revocation of the license.

   111.3. The renewal of a license issued to a driver who has been involved in a
   traffic fatality shall be subject to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	If, in the opinion of the hearing examiner at any hearing arising out of a
   revocation or suspension order, the evidence shows that the licensee
   contributed to a traffic fatality, the licensee shall not be permitted to
   retain or to regain operating privileges until the licensee undergoes a
   complete medical examination, both physical and mental, and receives a
   favorable report; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The examination shall be conducted by the Department of Human Services
   without cost to the licensee.

   111.4. The renewal of a license issued to a driver who has reached the
   suspension stage under the Point System and whose traffic record indicates
   involvement in two (2) or more accidents during the preceding three (3) years,
   or whose license(s) has (have) been revoked for cause, shall require a
   complete driver&#8217;s examination which shall include all the elements of an
   examination given to an applicant for the initial license.

   111.5. The renewal of a license issued to a driver who has reached the age of
   seventy years or more shall require re-examination as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	At age seventy (70), or the nearest renewal date thereafter, the applicant
   shall successfully complete the eye test, and may be required to successfully
   complete the reaction test, and shall furnish a statement from a practicing
   physician certifying that, after examination, the physician has found the
   applicant to be physically and mentally competent to operate a motor vehicle;
   and
   
   
   
   (b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this subsection, the
   applicant shall not be required to complete the written test and road test to
   renew a license for the sole reason that an applicant is seventy (70) years of
   age or older.

   111.6. The examination provided for in ยง 111.1 may include, but is not
   limited to, a medical, road, or written examination.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 2065 (March 4, 2005); as amended
   by D.C. Act 17-101 published at 54 DCR 8048 (August 17, 2007).
