                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPERVISION (ยง 17-4914)

4914.1. A physician assistant and a temporary licensed physician assistant
   shall be under the supervision of a physician at all times during which the
   physician assistant is working in his or her official capacity.

   4914.2. In an inpatient setting, supervision of a physician assistant shall
   include, but not be limited to, continuing or intermittent physical presence
   of the supervising physician with constant availability through electronic
   communications.

   4914.3. In an outpatient setting, supervision of a physician assistant shall
   include, but not be limited to, constant availability through electronic
   communications.

   4914.4. It is the obligation of each team of physician(s) and physician
   assistant(s) to                                                      ensure
   that the physician assistant&#8217;s scope of practice is identified; that
   delegation of medical tasks is appropriate to the physician assistant&#8217;s
   level of competence; that the relationship of, and access to, the supervising
   physician(s)  is defined; and that a process for evaluation of the physician
   assistant&#8217;s performance is established.  If the physician assistant is
   authorized to practice in a licensed health care facility or other practice
   setting, that entity is also  responsible for assuring the above through its
   credentialing and privileging or equivalent process.

   4914.5. More than one physician may enter into a delegation agreement with a
   physician assistant. For each delegation agreement, the physician assistant
   and the physician whose name is listed first on the delegation agreement shall
   each be responsible for determining the terms and boundaries of the agreement,
   for updating the delegation agreement, and for overall quality assurance
   oversight as set forth in ยง 4914.4. Each physician who signs the delegation
   agreement is responsible for supervising the care of patients whose care the
   physician has delegated to the physician assistant.

   4914.6. If a physician (due to a planned or unplanned absence) is unable
   personally to supervise the physician assistant consistent with the delegation
   agreement and this section, responsibility shall be delegated by the
   supervising physician to another supervising physician whose signature appears
   on the delegation agreement. If the supervising physician is unable to
   delegate supervisory responsibility to another supervising physician, the
   physician assistant may request another supervising physician on the
   delegation agreement to assume the responsibility of supervising. The
   supervising physician must consent to assume the responsibilities of the
   absent supervising physician.

   4914.7. A supervising physician must be a physician licensed in the District
   and must have accepted responsibility for supervision of the physician
   assistant by having signed the delegation agreement.

   4914.8. The names of supervising physician(s) shall be included in the
   delegation agreement.

   4914.9. Each physician assistant and one of the supervising physicians listed
   on the                  delegation agreement must complete a practice advisory
   review on a quarterly                  basis and document the review on a form
   kept on file in a personnel file at the                  location in which the
   physician assistant practices.

   4914.10. A physician shall not supervise more than four (4) physician
   assistants at one time.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 8263, 8272 (December 8, 1989); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8492 (August 31, 2007); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 4201 (March 22, 2013).
