                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPOINTMENT OF RESIDENT AGENT (ยง 16-607)

607.1. Each consumer goods repair dealer licensed pursuant to this chapter who
   is not a resident of the District shall, upon issuance of the license,
   immediately appoint a resident agent who resides or who has an office in the
   District, and shall promptly notify the Department of the name and address of
   the resident agent.

   607.2. The Department shall be notified within five (5) days of any change in
   the appointment of the resident agent.

   607.3. All judicial or other legal process intended for the non-resident
   licensee and related to the scope of this chapter or other laws or regulations
   relating to consumer goods repair transactions shall be served upon the
   resident agent.

   607.4. If a non-resident consumer goods dealer fails to appoint or maintain a
   registered agent in the District, or whenever any registered agent cannot with
   reasonable diligence be found at the agent&#8217;s office in the District, or
   whenever the appointment of the agent is revoked and no new agent is named,
   the Director of Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs or the
   Director&#8217;s designee (also referred to in this chapter as the
   &#8220;Director&#8221;) shall be the agent upon whom any process or other
   legal notice may be served and upon whom any notice or demand required or
   permitted by law to be served upon that person may be served.

   607.5. Service on the Director of any process, notice, or demand shall be made
   by delivering to and leaving duplicate copies of the process notice, or demand
   with the Director.

   607.6. If the Director is served, the Director shall cause one copy of the
   process, notice, or demand to be forwarded by certified mail to the last known
   address of the non-resident consumer goods repair dealer.

   607.7. The Director shall keep a record of all processes, notices, and demands
   served upon the Director under this section and shall record the time of the
   service and the action taken.
