                                  DC REGULATIONS

ORAL COMMUNICATION OF WRITTEN ESTIMATES (ยง 16-634)

634.1. If the customer chooses, the customer may modify the right to receive a
   written estimate prior to authorizing repairs by signing the separate waiver
   provision on the written estimate form.

   634.2. The waiver of written estimate provision shall be in a form required by
   the Department and shall provide the customer with the option to authorize
   repair on the basis of the consumer goods repair dealer&#8217;s oral
   communication of the estimated repair cost and the other information required
   on the written estimate.

   634.3. The customer shall exercise the option by signing his or her name and
   the date in the space provided for waiver option.

   634.4. It shall be the responsibility of the customer who signs a waiver to
   contact the consumer goods repair dealer or supervisory inspector for oral
   communication of the estimate.

   634.5. The waiver of written estimate shall also contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	On the top in bold letters the following statement: YOU HAVE THE RIGHT TO
   RECEIVE A WRITTEN ESTIMATE WHICH IS SIGNED BY YOU AND THE DEALER BEFORE REPAIR
   SERVICES ARE AUTHORIZED AND BEGUN;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement of any charges which will be made in the event that the
   customer, upon receiving the estimate orally, elects not to proceed with the
   repairs;
   
   
   
   (c)	An instruction to the customer to indicate, on the appropriate space on
   the written estimate form or waiver form, whether he or she does or does not
   wish to receive the replaced parts; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The date and time after which storage charges will be imposed if the
   customer fails to contact the consumer goods repair dealer for oral
   communication of the estimate.

   634.6. Oral communication of the information required on the written estimate
   shall in no way be considered a substitute for a written estimate.

   634.7. If a customer chooses to authorize repairs on the basis of an oral
   communication, the written estimate required by ยง 633 shall be completed by
   the dealer at the time of the oral communication and presented to the customer
   along with the final bill.

   634.8. If a customer chooses to authorize repairs on the basis of an oral
   communication of the information contained on the written estimate, the
   customer&#8217;s oral consent shall be sufficient authorization to initiate
   repairs; Provided, that the date, time, and manner in which the oral consent
   was received shall be recorded on the written estimate and a copy of the
   written estimate shall be given to the customer along with the final bill.
