                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPERVISORY INSPECTOR LICENSE (ยง 16-603)

603.1. Each motor vehicle and electronics equipment repair dealer shall be
   licensed as a supervisory inspector or shall be required to employ, under ยง
   631, a supervisory inspector who shall be licensed pursuant to the
   requirements of this section.

   603.2. The Department shall establish a program for competency testing and
   registration of motor vehicles and electronics equipment supervisory
   inspectors.

   603.4. Any individual who has successfully passed the appropriate competency
   test and has otherwise complied with the licensing requirements for
   supervisory inspectors shall be designated by the Department as a
   &#8220;Registered Automotive Supervisory Inspector&#8221; or a
   &#8220;Registered Electronics Supervisory Inspector,&#8221; as the case may
   be, in the appropriate repair industry category or in a designated repair
   specialty within that category.

   603.5. Failure to obtain a license as required by this section and by ยง 602
   may be raised as an affirmative defense to any suit brought by a consumer
   goods repair dealer or supervisory inspector seeking to collect payment for
   services performed by the dealer or inspector in that person&#8217;s area of
   licensure.

   603.6. Each applicant for a supervisory inspector license shall demonstrate to
   the Department, in a manner to be prescribed by the Department, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the applicant is at least eighteen (18) years of age;
   
   
   
   (b)	The applicant is physically fit to perform the duties of a supervisory
   inspector;
   
   
   
   (c)	The applicant has successfully passed the competency examination
   administered or certified by the Department under this chapter; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The applicant is of good moral character.

   603.7. An applicant shall be presumed to be of good moral character unless he
   or she has been convicted of a crime which the Department finds has a
   substantial relationship to the functions and responsibilities to be performed
   by a supervisory inspector, and that the applicant has not demonstrated good
   moral character subsequent to the conviction.
