                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPAIR DEALER LICENSE (§ 16-602)

602.1. Each consumer goods repair dealer who provides repair services in the
   District in the motor vehicles repair category, under § 611, and each
   consumer goods repair dealer who provides services in the electronics
   equipment repair category pursuant to § 612, shall obtain a license from the
   Department pursuant to the provisions of this section.

   602.2. At such time as consumer goods repair dealer licensure becomes
   mandatory in repair industry categoriesother than the motor vehicle and
   electronics categories, each consumer goods repair dealer shall be required to
   secure a separate license for each repair industry category subject to this
   chapter and in which the dealer provides repair services.

   602.3. If a dealer confines repair services to one (1) or more specialties
   within a category, that dealer shall be required to secure a license only for
   each specialty in which the dealer provides repair services.

   602.4. If a consumer goods repair dealer operates more than one (1) place of
   business offering repair services subject to this chapter, the dealer shall
   obtain a separate consumer goods repair dealer license for each separate place
   of business.

   602.5. Each applicant for a consumer goods repair dealer license shall
   demonstrate to the Department that the applicant conducts or intends to
   conduct repair services in the District, and that the applicant has supplied
   the Department with any other information required by § 604 or the
   Department.

   602.6. Each applicant for a consumer goods repair dealer license who employs
   five (5) or fewer repairmen shall file with the Department a corporate surety
   bond in the amount of two thousand dollars ($ 2,000).

   602.7. Each applicant dealer who employs more than five (5) repairmen shall
   file a corporate surety bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($ 5,000).

   602.8. The corporate surety bond shall serve as protection for any person
   aggrieved by violation of this chapter, in accordance with the provisions of
   D.C. Code § 47-2844 (1981 Ed.).
