                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATION (§ 16-600)

600.1. The primary responsibility for the administration of the licensing
   program established pursuant to this chapter shall rest with the Department of
   Consumer and Regulatory Affairs (which is also referred to in this chapter as
   the &#8220;Department&#8221;).

   600.2. The Department shall perform the following functions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Conduct investigations and public hearings from time to time to determine
   the need for regulation of additional repair industry categories;
   
   
   
   (b)	Establish license classifications for consumer goods repair dealers and
   supervisory inspectors licensed by this chapter;
   
   
   
   (c)	Establish, in its discretion, advisory panels for each repair industry
   category required by this regulation to serve as technical consultants to the
   Department and to assist in the preparation of competency examinations;
   
   
   
   (d)	Develop, after appropriate study, a recommended fee system for repair
   dealer and supervisory inspector licensees for adoption by the Mayor;
   
   
   
   (e)	Devise and administer a competency examination system for the licensing of
   supervisory inspectors in each repair industry category or specialty covered
   by this regulation; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Establish pursuant to the D.C. Administrative Procedure Act (D.C. Code §
   1-1501 et seq. (1981 Ed.)), the necessary rules to carry out the provisions of
   this chapter.

   600.3. License classifications established under § 600.2(b) shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The designation of repair industry specialties within their respective
   repair industry categories and specific consumer goods repair services within
   their appropriate specialties; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The type of repair industry license required by each consumer goods repair
   dealer and the type of supervisory inspector to be required by each such
   dealer.

   600.4. Each advisory panel established under § 600.2(c) shall consist of
   three (3) members, who shall be appointed by the Mayor from recommendations
   submitted to the Mayor by the Department.

   600.5. Two (2) members of each advisory panel shall be representatives of the
   relevant repair industry category or specialty, and one (1) member shall not
   be affiliated with any repair industry category but shall have relevant
   technical expertise.

   600.6. Tenure for advisory panel members shall be determined by the Mayor.

   600.7. The fee system developed by the Department shall be devised in
   accordance with D.C. Code § 47-2842 (1981 Ed.), so that the license fee is
   commensurate with the cost to the District of the inspection, competency
   testing, and other regulatory functions required by this chapter. The fee
   system shall be structured to fairly apportion these costs among the
   licensees.

   600.8. A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
   a fine or imprisonment pursuant to D.C. Code § 47-2846 (1981 Ed.).
