                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPAIR OF MOTOR VEHICLES (ยง 16-611)

611.1. The repair industry category designated as &#8220;motor vehicles&#8221;
   shall include any passenger vehicle fully or partially powered by an internal
   combustion engine or an electric motor, and intended primarily as a means of
   transportation, and shall include trailers which are intended primarily for
   attachment to passenger vehicles.

   611.2. The Department shall establish and publish appropriate technical
   definitions, practices and procedural requirements consistent with this
   chapter and designed to assure public safety in the field of automotive
   repair.

   611.3. The Department shall identify motor vehicle repair services to be
   included within the scope of this chapter, including but not limited to
   repairing or changing tires; lubrication; installing light bulbs, batteries,
   windshield wiper blades, and other minor accessories; cleaning, adjusting, and
   replacing spark plugs; replacing fan belts, oil, and air filters; and other
   minor services which require mechanical expertise to be performed properly and
   have given rise to a high incidence of fraud or deceptive practices or involve
   a part of the motor vehicle essential to its safe operation.

   611.4. The Department shall establish repair industry specialties within the
   category of motor vehicles repair and identify the specific types of motor
   vehicles repair services to be included in each specialty.

   611.5. The Department shall establish definitions of the following automotive
   repair terms and services, along with other terms and services that the
   Department may deem appropriate:
   
   
   
   (a)	Motor: Minimum overhaul, engine overhaul, and tuneup;
   
   
   
   (b)	Brake System: Brake adjustment and replacement, replace brake drum, turn
   brake drum, renew drum brake linings, rebuild wheel cylinder, rebuild master
   cylinder;
   
   
   
   (c)	Visibility: Replace sealed beam, aim headlights, replace speedometer
   cable, replace windshield wiper motor;
   
   (d)	Steering and Suspension: Replace ball joint, replace shock absorber,
   replace wheel bearing, balance wheel, front end alignment, recondition power
   steering gear, replace power steering house;
   
   
   
   (e)	Exhaust System: Replace tailpipe, replace muffler, replace exhaust pipe;
   
   
   
   (f)	Ignition System: Replace cable set, replace or clean spark plugs (set),
   tune-up, replace points and condenser, retiming; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Fuel System: Replace carburetor, replace fuel pump, replace fuel filter,
   replace air cleaner.
