                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 16-699)

699.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Consumer goods &#8211; chattels owned and normally used by an individual for
   personal, family, or household purposes; and those chattels, normally used for
   personal, family, or household purposes, which are acquired or used for
   commercial or business purposes other than for sale or resale.
   
   
   
   Consumer goods repair dealer &#8211; any person who for compensation
   undertakes to perform or have performed repair services on consumer goods in
   the District, unless that person performs those services solely in the course
   of carrying out his or her duties as a salaried employee of an organization or
   public agency. Persons licensed pursuant to D.C. Code provisions or other
   federal laws or regulations relating to the rendering of repair services are
   exempt from this definition unless they perform other repair services not
   covered by the statute or regulation and are otherwise subject to this
   chapter.
   
   
   
   Customer &#8211; the person who presents consumer goods for repair cost
   estimates or repairs, or the person in whose name the written estimate and
   final bill, as defined in ยง 633 and ยง 637, respectively, of this chapter.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the D.C. Department of Consumer and
   Regulatory Affairs or the Director&#8217;s representative, agent, or designee.
   
   
   
   Organization &#8211; a corporation, agency, trust, estate, partnership,
   cooperative association, or individually owned business.
   
   
   
   Person &#8211; a natural person or an organization.
   
   
   
   Repair industry category &#8211; consumer goods repair services which fall
   into a broad class or into a category of related consumer goods as established
   and defined by the Department.
   
   
   
   Repair services &#8211; any kind of activity, including labor, performed or
   agreed to be performed for compensation involving inspection, pick-up,
   installation, adjustment, servicing, modification, replacement of parts, or
   improvement of consumer goods in the District unless that activity is
   performed in fulfillment of a long-term commercial service contract with a
   business or commercial organization.
   
   
   
   Repair specialty &#8211; consumer goods repair services which fall into a
   subcategory of a repair industry category as specified and defined by the
   Department.
   
   
   
   Supervisory inspector &#8211; a repair technician, service manager, or other
   employee, agent or independent contractor licensed under ยง 603 and authorized
   by a licensed consumer goods repair dealer to ascertain on behalf of that
   dealer that all work performed on consumer goods by that dealer within the
   supervisory inspector&#8217;s repair industry category or specialty has been
   performed properly, in accordance with accepted standards of that repair
   industry category or specialty and in conformity with all regulations
   governing repair services in the District.
