                                  DC REGULATIONS

TENDER OF GOODS AND FINAL BILL (ยง 16-637)

637.1. In each repair transaction the consumer goods repair dealer shall
   present to the customer, at time of return of repaired goods, a properly
   signed copy of the final bill, as specified in this section.

   637.2. If the final bill is on reverse side of the written estimate form or
   otherwise a part of the written estimate form, items (a), (b), (c), (k) and
   (l) of the final bill, as itemized in ยง 637.4, need not be repeated in the
   final bill if they are clearly stated on the written estimate.

   637.3. Tender of consumer goods as repaired shall constitute certification by
   the dealer that the dealer has fulfilled the dealer&#8217;s obligations
   according to the provisions of this chapter.

   637.4. The final bill shall be a written statement signed by the dealer or
   appropriate supervisory inspector, and shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address and telephone number of the repair dealer (as stated on
   the dealer&#8217;s license) for the specified place of business in which the
   goods were accepted for repair or to which taken after pick-up at a residence
   or commercial organization;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name and address of the customer;
   
   
   
   (c)	Identification and description of the item repaired;
   
   
   
   (d)	The date the item was received for repair, the date the estimate was
   issued, and date on which the repair was completed;
   
   
   
   (e)	A general notation of each stage of labor required to complete the
   authorized repairs, the amount of time required to complete each stage, and
   the total cost of the labor;
   
   
   
   (f)	An itemization of each part added to or replaced in the repaired goods and
   a specific disclosure if any parts are rebuilt, used, or reconditioned; a
   description by name, factory part, number or by name, class and type, of each
   part added or replaced; and the charges levied for each part added or
   replaced. No miscellaneous designations (such as &#8220;shop supplies&#8221;
   or &#8220;shop materials&#8221;) shall be used;
   
   
   
   (g)	An itemized statement of all additional charges, including but not limited
   to charges for supplying an estimate, service calls, storage, service and
   handling, taxes, and other charges;
   
   
   
   (h)	Identification of each repairman who performed all or part of the repairs
   on the consumer goods and identification of the specific stage of repair for
   which each repairman named was partially or wholly responsible;
   
   
   
   (i)	A statement identifying any and all work which was subcontracted to any
   other repair dealer including, when requested by the customer, the name and
   address of any subcontractors who have performed repair work on all or part of
   the consumer goods;
   
   
   
   (j)	A statement describing the exact nature of any warranty on the repairs
   performed, including labor and parts, unless the warranty is attached to the
   final bill. If there is no warranty, that fact shall be disclosed;
   
   
   
   (k)	The statement: &#8220;Bond Filed with the Department of Consumer and
   Regulatory Affairs&#8221;;
   
   
   
   (l)	This statement is bold type, on either side of the final bill form: SAVE
   THIS DOCUMENT. TO MAKE INQUIRIES, CONTACT THE D.C. DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AND
   REGULATORY. AFFAIRS BETWEEN (hours of operation) AT (address and telephone
   number); and
   
   
   
   (m)	This statement in bold type: ALL LABOR PERFORMED AND PARTS ADDED OR
   REPLACED WHERE NECESSARY TO PERFORM THE REPAIRS AUTHORIZED BY THE CUSTOMER.
