                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FORM (ยง 17-8901)

8901.1. Each applicant must state on the form for trade name registration:
   
   
   
   (a)	The trade name under which the business is to be conducted.
   
   
   
   (b)	The true and real name of each person conducting or intending to conduct
   the business, or who has an interest in that business:
   
   
   
   (1)	A sole proprietorship shall state the true and real name or names of each
   person comprising the sole proprietorship.
   
   
   
   (2)	A general partnership shall state the true and real name or names of each
   person comprising the general partnership and state the name of the general
   partnership.
   
   
   
   (3)	A foreign or domestic limited partnership or foreign or domestic limited
   liability partnership shall state the true and real name of the partnership
   and the name of the general partner as filed with the Corporations Division of
   the Department.
   
   
   
   (4)	A foreign or domestic limited liability company shall state the true and
   real name of the limited liability company and the name of the manager or
   member as filed with the Corporations Division of the Department.
   
   
   
   (5)	A foreign or domestic corporation shall state the true and real name of
   the corporation and the name of an officer or director as filed with the
   Corporations Division of the Department.
   
   
   
   (c)	The District of Columbia street address, not a post office box number
   
   
   
   (1)	of the business location, or,
   
   
   
   (2)	If there is no fixed business location within the District of Columbia,
   then the District of Columbia street address of the resident agent if person
   owning the business is a sole proprietor, otherwise the street address of the
   registered agent.
   
   
   
   (d)	The business phone number;
   
   
   
   (e)	The business activities associated with the trade name shall be listed
   using the business codes identified in the Office of Tax and Revenue
   application for Combined Business Tax Registration; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Any other information as the Director may require.

   8901.2. Each person shall certify that the business entity is in compliance
   with payment of all fees, taxes, penalties, and fines owed to the District.

   8901.3. If registered with the Corporations Division of the Department, each
   person shall certify that such entity is in good standing.

   8901.4. The application along with instructions shall be available on the
   Internet, at the Business License Center of the Department, and other
   designated locations.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by final rulemaking published at 49 DCR 10075 (November 8,
   2002).
