                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACT QUALITY REQUIREMENTS (ยง 27-4004)

4004.1. The type and extent of contract quality requirements needed in each
   solicitation or contract under ยง4000.2(a) shall depend on the particular
   procurement and may range from inspection at time of acceptance to a
   requirement for the contractor&#8217;s implementation of a comprehensive
   program for controlling quality.

   4004.2. A solicitation or contract may provide for alternative, but
   substantially equivalent, inspection methods to obtain broader competition and
   reduce costs.

   4004.3. The contracting officer may authorize alternative quality control or
   inspection methods recommended by the contractor when in the best interests of
   the District and approved by the agency responsible for the technical
   requirements.

   4004.4. Except as otherwise specified by the contract, required contractor
   testing may be performed in the contractor&#8217;s, or a
   subcontractor&#8217;s, testing facility or in any other testing facility
   acceptable to the contracting officer.

   4004.5. Except as provided in ยง4004.6, when goods, services, or construction
   are procured by small purchase procedures pursuant to chapter 18 of this
   title, the District shall rely on the contractor to accomplish all inspection
   and testing needed to ensure compliance with contract quality requirements
   before the goods, services, or construction are tendered to the District.

   4004.6. The District shall not rely on inspection by the contractor if the
   contracting officer determines that the District has a need to test the goods,
   services, or construction in advance of their tender for acceptance, or
   determines that there is a need to review the adequacy of the
   contractor&#8217;s internal work processes. In making the determination, the
   contracting officer shall consider the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nature of the goods, services, or construction being procured and
   their intended use;
   
   
   
   (b)	The potential losses in the event of defects;
   
   
   
   (c)	The likelihood of uncontested replacements or correction of defective
   work; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The cost of a detailed inspection by the District.

   4004.7. With respect to goods, services or construction other than small
   purchase procurements, the contracting officer shall include in each
   solicitation and contract a standard clause, approved by the Director, setting
   forth inspection guidelines requiring the contractor to do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provide and maintain an inspection system that is acceptable to the
   District;
   
   
   
   (b)	Give the District the right to make inspections and tests while work is in
   progress; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Keep complete records of its inspection work which are available to the
   District upon request.

   4004.8. The contracting officer shall determine the extent of contract quality
   requirements, including contractor inspection, required under each contract.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1717 (February 26, 1988).
