                                  DC REGULATIONS

WARRANTY TERMS AND CONDITIONS (ยง 27-4029)

4029.1. To facilitate the pricing and enforcement of warranties, the
   contracting officer shall ensure that each warranty clearly states the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The exact nature of the item and its components and the characteristics
   that the contractor warrants;
   
   
   
   (b)	The extent of the contractor&#8217;s warranty, including all of the
   contractor&#8217;s obligations to the District for breach of warranty;
   
   
   
   (c)	The specific remedies available to the District; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The scope and duration of the warranty.

   4029.2. The contractor&#8217;s obligations under a warranty shall extend to
   all defects discovered during the warranty period, but shall not include any
   damage caused solely by the District.

   4029.3. When the contracting officer determines that a warranty for the entire
   item is not in the best interests of the District, the contracting officer may
   require a warranty for a particular aspect of the item that may require
   special protection, such as installation, components, accessories,
   subassemblies, preservation, packaging, or packing.

   4029.4. At a minimum, a warranty shall provide that the District may obtain an
   equitable adjustment of the contract or direct the contractor to repair or
   replace the defective item at the contractor&#8217;s expense.

   4029.5. If it is not practical to require the contractor to make a repair or
   provide a replacement, or, because of the nature of the item, the repair or
   replacement does not afford an appropriate remedy to the District, the
   warranty may provide an alternative, such as allowing the District to do
   either of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Retain the defective item and reduce the contract price by an amount
   equitable under the circumstances; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Arrange for the repair or replacement of the defective item by the
   District, or by another source, at the contractor&#8217;s expense.

   4029.6. The contracting officer shall clearly specify the duration of the
   warranty after consideration of the following factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	The estimated useful life of the item;
   
   
   
   (b)	The nature of the item including storage or shelf-like; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Trade practice.

   4029.7. The duration of the warranty shall not extend the contractor&#8217;s
   liability for patent defects beyond a reasonable time after acceptance by the
   District.

   4029.8. If the District specifies the design of the end item and its
   measurements, tolerances, materials, tests, or inspection requirements, the
   contractor&#8217;s obligations for correction of defects shall be limited to
   defects in material and workmanship or failure to conform to specifications.
   If the District does not specify the design, the warranty shall extend to the
   usefulness of the design.

   4029.9. Each warranty shall specify a reasonable time for furnishing notice to
   the contractor regarding the discovery of defects. The contracting officer
   shall consider the following factors when establishing the notice period:
   
   
   
   (a)	The time necessary for the District to discover the defects;
   
   
   
   (b)	The time reasonably required for the District to take necessary
   administrative steps and make a timely report of discovery of the defects to
   the contractor; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The time required to discover and report defective replacements.

   4029.10. The packaging and preservation requirements of a contract shall
   require the contractor to stamp or mark the goods delivered or otherwise
   furnish notice with the goods of the existence of the warranty.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1727 (February 26, 1988).
