                                  DC REGULATIONS

NEW EMPLOYEE PROBATIONARY PERIOD (§ 14-7109)

7109.1. A permanent employee hired to fill a full-time position must
   successfully complete a probationary period.

   7109.2. The probationary period is the employee’s first twelve (12) months
   of employment. During this time, all probationary employees will be trained
   and then evaluated on performance, abilities, and interpersonal skills every
   three (3) months during the probationary year.

   7109.3. A performance rating of less than “fully successful” for any two
   (2) rating periods will result in termination.

   7109.4. In unusual circumstances the probationary period may be extended not
   to exceed six (6) months with the written approval of the Executive Director.
   Employees who successfully complete the twelve (12) month or extended
   probationary period gain permanent status.

   7109.5. Employees in initial twelve (12) month or extended probationary
   period:
   
   
   
   (a)	May not receive a merit step increase until the employee has completed
   twelve (12) months of service with a rating of “fully successful” or
   better.
   
   
   
   (b)	May be terminated at any time for any reason, without cause.
   
   
   
   (c)	May not appeal any decision relating to employment, including termination.
   
   
   
   (d)	May take paid sick leave after thirty (30) days of employment up to the
   amount accrued.

   7109.6. Former employees who left the Authority without prejudice, or who
   change position classification, shall also serve a twelve (12) month
   probationary period.

   7109.7. An employee of permanent status who is promoted to a first time
   supervisory or managerial position must serve a one (1) year probationary
   period in the new position.
   
   
   
   	If the probationary period is completed satisfactorily, the employee is
   classified as permanent in the new position. If the employee fails the
   probationary period, demotion or termination may result. An employee in
   promotional probationary status has all rights, privileges and benefits as set
   forth in this chapter, except the employee is not eligible to apply for
   another position that may be vacant. However, the Director(s) involved may
   make recommendations to the Executive Director, and upon approval by the
   Executive Director, the employee may apply for the position.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 6914, 6921-6922
   (December 8, 1995).
