                                  DC REGULATIONS

CLASSIFICATION AND COMPENSATION (ยง 14-7112)

7112.1. In compliance with Equal Employment Opportunity laws and regulations,
   the Authority maintains the following classifications of employment:
   
   
   
   (a)	Executive &#8211; policy makers who exercise overall responsibility for
   execution of these policies. Includes Departmental Directors or individuals in
   charge of Authority operations.
   
   
   
   (b)	Administrative &#8211; responsibility for analyzing, evaluating, and
   carrying out the basic programs, policies and procedures that facilitate the
   work of the Authority and its programs.
   
   
   
   (c)	Professional &#8211; responsibility for work that requires discretion,
   judgment, and personal responsibility for the application through education
   represented by a bachelor degree or higher in a specialized field.
   
   
   
   (d)	Technical &#8211; responsibility for work which requires an extensive
   practical knowledge, gained through experience or specific training less than
   that represented by college graduation.
   
   
   
   (e)	Clerical &#8211; responsibility for general office and/or program support
   utilizing keyboards or office automation equipment and requiring a general
   knowledge of office procedures.
   
   
   
   (f)	Protective Services &#8211; responsibility for the security of Authority
   personnel, residents and property.
   
   
   
   (g)	Maintenance &#8211; responsibility for the care of buildings, facilities,
   grounds, and/or the operation of machinery; requires manual skills.

   7112.2. Pay rates shall be linked directly to the Classification Plan that
   determines the pay and pay schedules.

   7112.3. The plan shall be established with due regard to rates of pay for
   other classifications, the relative difficulty and responsibility of the work
   in the several classifications, the recruiting experience of the Authority and
   the availability of employees in particular occupational categories, the
   prevailing rates of pay for similar employment in private business and in
   other governmental jurisdictions, the cost of living factors, the existing
   collective bargaining agreements, the policies of regulatory agencies, the
   fiscal position of the Authority, and other economic considerations. The rates
   of pay assigned to the several classifications shall be those which most
   nearly reflect these factors.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 6914, 6923 (December
   8, 1995).
