                                  DC REGULATIONS

RULES AND CONDITIONS (§ 14-7136)

7136.1. Employees of the Authority are required to conduct themselves in a
   professional, ethical, business-like manner and in full compliance with
   applicable laws while on the job. During non-working hours, employees are
   encouraged to refrain from activities that would bring public discredit to the
   Authority and, depending on the severity of the situation, may be disciplined
   for failure to do so. Employees are expected to be courteous and respectful in
   their interchange with other employees, residents, and the general public.

   7136.2. No employee shall knowingly have an interest, direct or indirect, in
   any property included or planned to be included in any project of the
   Authority; nor knowingly have any interest, direct or indirect, in any
   contract or proposed contract for materials or services to be used by the
   Authority except as may be authorized by the Executive Director. If such
   interest was acquired prior to employment, or if knowledge of such interest is
   subsequent to employment, the employee shall disclose the same in writing to
   the Authority. An employee shall not benefit financially by reason of the
   activities of the Authority with outside parties.

   7136.3. There is an actual conflict of interest whenever a private interest
   (financial or non-financial) might cause an employee to perform official
   duties in a way other than if the employee did not have the private interest.
   There is an appearance of a conflict of interest whenever a reasonable person
   might suspect that the private interest would affect the employee’s
   performance of duties.

   7136.4. Where doubt exists, legally or ethically, the employee shall take the
   initiative of calling the matter to the attention of the Executive Director
   for ruling and guidance. Upon leaving the employment of the Authority, an
   individual may not conduct business with the Authority until a twelve (12)
   month period has expired.

   7136.5. Authority employees shall not engage in any of the following political
   activities by reason of the Hatch Act:
   
   
   
   (a)	An employee may not use his/her official authority or influence for the
   purpose of interfering with or affecting the result of an election or
   nomination for political office.
   
   
   
   (b)	An employee may not, directly or indirectly, coerce, attempt to coerce,
   command or advise a state or local officer or employee to pay, lend, or
   contribute anything valuable to a political party, committee, organization,
   agency or person for political purposes.
   
   
   
   (c)	An employee may not be a candidate for public elected office in a partisan
   election.

   7136.6. DCHA employees will observe reasonable standards of neatness and good
   grooming at all times. Each employee is expected to wear clothing commensurate
   with the type of work performed. Employees are expected to avoid extremes in
   attire. Office employees should dress in a professional manner, particularly
   in positions required to meet the public. Supervisors may discuss this with
   individual employees if there is any question about the employee’s
   appearance.

   7136.7. Employees are prohibited from engaging in any outside work, at any
   time, which presents a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of
   interest or interference with working hours and scheduling demands (including
   overtime or on-call requirements) or leads to excessive absenteeism or
   tardiness.

   7136.8. If it is determined that an employee’s outside work interferes with
   performance or ability to meet the requirements of the position, the employee
   may be asked to terminate outside employment to remain employed with the
   Authority.

   7136.9. Employees are not permitted to accept any gratuities, favors, gifts or
   special considerations, regardless of their value, from tenants, contractors,
   vendors or any others doing business with the Authority.

   7136.10. In keeping with the Authority’s intent to provide a safe and
   healthy work environment, smoking in the workplace is prohibited, except in
   those locations that have been specifically designated as smoking areas.

   7136.11. Except with reasonable justification, or in the performance of
   assigned duties or in an emergency, employees are not permitted to enter
   public housing apartments during working hours.

   7136.12. Employees are prohibited from possessing, consuming or being under
   the influence of illegal (non-prescription) drugs or alcohol or any other
   controlled substance, and any other acts as described in subsection 7141.1(j)
   of this chapter, and the Drug-Free Workplace Act, while on Authority property.

   7136.13. Employees are not permitted to represent the Authority before any
   person or group of persons without prior written consent of the Executive
   Director.

   7136.14. Any violation of the rules and conditions of this chapter shall be
   grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including removal from employment
   with the Authority.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 6914, 6931 (December
   8, 1995); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 9365 (September
   28, 2007).
