                                  DC REGULATIONS

TERMINATION OR REMOVAL OF EMPLOYMENT (§ 14-7111)

7111.1. Employees may voluntarily terminate their employment relationship at
   any time, but are expected to provide not less than two (2) weeks advance
   notice of intent to vacate their position.

   7111.2. The Executive Director shall conduct a reduction-in-force in the
   following manner:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Executive Director shall have sole discretion to determine the
   organizational structure, number of positions, classifications and positions
   in the Authority. The Executive Director may reduce the size of the workforce,
   including by the abolition of positions, when the Executive Director
   determines that such action is necessary or prudent. Except as otherwise
   provided by law, no outside agency may substitute its judgment for that of the
   Executive Director as to the prudence of such action.
   
   
   
   (b)	Permanent employees subject to termination by a reduction-in-force shall
   receive prior written notice of the action to be taken, the effective date of
   the action and the employee’s appeal rights. The termination of an employee
   by a reduction-in-force shall not be considered a removal for cause under
   these policies.
   
   
   
   (c)	Collective Bargaining Unit Employees shall be subject to termination by a
   reduction-in-force in accordance with the terms of any unexpired collective
   bargaining agreement.

   7111.3. Exempt Employees serve at the pleasure of the Executive Director, and
   may be terminated without cause and with no appeal rights.

   7111.4. Permanent employees may be removed for cause or misconduct as
   described in these policies. Except for the Executive Director, no supervisor
   may terminate the employment of an employee under his or her supervision
   without the prior concurrence of the Division Chief. Permanent employees
   subject to removal shall receive prior written notice of removal that
   includes:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement of cause for removal;
   
   
   
   (b)	The place where the employee may inspect the personnel file pertaining to
   him or her; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The employee’s appeal rights.

   7111.5. Collective Bargaining Unit employees may be removed at any time, for
   cause and with notice as required by the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
   Notice of removal shall be in writing. Except for the Executive Director, no
   supervisor may terminate the employment of an employee under his or her
   supervision without the prior concurrence of the Division Chief. Collective
   Bargaining employees are entitled to, and shall receive, prior written notice
   of removal that includes:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement of cause for removal;
   
   
   
   (b)	The place where the employee may inspect the personnel file pertaining to
   him or her; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The employee’s appeal rights.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 6914, 6922-6923
   (December 8, 1995).
