                                  DC REGULATIONS

SEXUAL HARASSMENT (§ 14-7143)

7143.1. The Authority strongly opposes sexual harassment in the workplace and
   has established reporting procedures for complainants. Sexual harassment of
   employees or residents, whether verbal, physical or graphic is unacceptable
   and will not be tolerated. Supervisors must take action when apprised of
   questionable social-sexual activity in the workplace by counseling the person
   exhibiting the behavior.

   7143.2. Sexual harassment is a form of sex discrimination, and is an unlawful
   employment practice under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

   7143.3. Sexual harassment is defined as unwelcome sexual advances, requests
   for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature
   when:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term
   or condition of employment;
   
   
   
   (b)	Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an employee is used as the
   basis for employment decisions affecting such employee; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an
   employee’s work performance or creating an intimidating hostile or offensive
   working environment.

   7143.4. Sexual harassment may include, but is not limited to, verbal conduct
   with sexual overtones, subtle pressure for sexual activity, patting or
   pinching, brushing against another employee’s body, and demands for sexual
   favors.

   7143.5. The Executive Director or his or her designee is the deciding official
   in the sexual harassment complaint process. The Executive Director or his or
   her designee shall investigate all formal complaints of sexual harassment.

   7143.6. Employees who experience sexual harassment should immediately notify
   their immediate supervisor. Employees who are not comfortable reporting
   incidents of sexual harassment to the immediate supervisor may notify the
   Department Director, Executive Director or his or her designee.

   7143.7. All verbal reports of sexual harassment shall be reduced to writing by
   either the complainant or the individual(s) designated to receive complaints,
   and be signed by the complainant.

   7143.8. All information regarding a complaint is confidential. The complainant
   will determine the mode of correspondence related to the complaint.

   7143.9. No complainant shall be harassed, discharged, or retaliated against
   for filing a sexual harassment complaint.

   7143.10. The Authority encourages prompt reporting of complaints.

   7143.11. A finding supporting the sexual harassment allegation will result in
   disciplinary action.

   7143.12. The complainant may file a complaint with the District of Columbia
   Office of Human Rights or the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 6914, 6939-6940
   (December 8, 1995).
