                                  DC REGULATIONS

TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE COSTS (ยง 27-3318)

3318.1. The costs of items reasonably usable on the contractor&#8217;s other
   work shall not be allowable upon termination of a contract for the convenience
   of the District, unless the contractor submits evidence that the items could
   not be retained at cost without sustaining a loss.

   3318.2. Costs which cannot be discontinued immediately after the effective
   date of the termination may be allowed. However, any costs continuing after
   the effective date of the termination due to the negligent or willful failure
   of the contractor to discontinue the costs shall not be allowable.

   3318.3. Initial costs, such as starting load and preparatory costs, shall be
   allowable in the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	When starting load costs not fully absorbed because of termination are
   nonrecurring labor, material, and related overhead costs incurred in the early
   part of production and result from factors such as the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Excessive spoilage due to inexperienced labor;
   
   
   
   (2)	Idle time and subnormal production due to testing and changing production
   methods;
   
   
   
   (3)	Training; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Lack of familiarity or experience with the product, materials, or
   manufacturing processes.
   
   
   
   (b)	When costs incurred in preparing to perform the terminated contract
   include costs such as those incurred for initial plant rearrangement and
   alterations, management and personnel organization, and production planning,
   but not special machinery and equipment and starting load costs.

   3318.4. When initial costs are included in the settlement proposal as direct
   costs, those costs also shall not be included in overhead. Initial costs
   attributable only to a single contract shall not be allocated to other
   contracts.

   3318.5. The loss of useful value of special tooling, or special machinery and
   equipment, shall be allowed if the following factors apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The special tooling, or special machinery and equipment, is not reasonably
   capable of use in the other work of the contractor;
   
   
   
   (b)	The District&#8217;s interest is protected by transfer of title to the
   District or by other means deemed appropriate by the contracting officer; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The loss of useful value for a single terminated contract is limited to
   that portion of the procurement cost which bears the same ratio to the total
   procurement cost as the terminated portion of the contract bears to the entire
   terminated contract and other District contracts for which the special tooling
   or special machinery and equipment was procured.

   3318.6. Rental costs under an unexpired lease, less the residual value of the
   lease, shall be allowable when the contracting officer determines that the
   lease was reasonably necessary for the performance of the terminated contract.
   The following limitations shall apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	The amount of rental claimed shall not exceed the reasonable use value of
   the property leased for the period of the contract and any further period that
   may be reasonable; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The contractor shall make all reasonable efforts to terminate, assign,
   settle, or otherwise reduce the cost of the lease.

   3318.7. The contract may provide that the costs of alterations and reasonable
   restorations required by a lease are allowable.

   3318.8. The costs of settlement of the termination (such as accounting, legal,
   clerical, and similar costs reasonably necessary for the preparation and
   presentation of settlement claims to the contracting officer) shall be
   allowable. Indirect costs related to salary and wages incurred as a result of
   the preparation and presentation of settlement claims shall be allowable.

   3318.9. Costs of termination and settlement of subcontracts, as well as
   subcontractor claims as a result of a termination, shall be allowable except
   as provided in ยง3707.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1657 (February 26, 1988).
