                                  DC REGULATIONS

DETERMINING REASONABLENESS (ยง 27-3307)

3307.1. The contracting officer shall determine a cost to be reasonable if it
   does not differ from or exceed in amount that which would be incurred by a
   prudent person in the conduct of a competitive business, in accordance with
   the provisions of this chapter.

   3307.2. In determining the reasonableness of a given cost, the contracting
   officer shall consider the following factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	Whether the cost is of a type generally recognized as ordinary and
   necessary for the conduct of the contractor&#8217;s business or the
   performance of the contract;
   
   
   
   (b)	The restraints or requirements imposed by generally accepted sound
   business practices, arms length bargaining, federal and District laws and
   regulations, and contract terms and specifications;
   
   
   
   (c)	The action that a prudent business person would take, considering
   responsibilities to the owner of the business, employees, customers, the
   District, and the public at large;
   
   
   
   (d)	Any significant deviations from the established practices of the
   contractor that may unjustifiably increase the contract costs; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Any other relevant factors.

   3307.3. Reasonableness of specific costs must be examined with particular care
   in connection with firms or their separate divisions that may not be subject
   to effective competitive restraints.

   3307.4. No presumption of reasonableness shall be attached to the incurrence
   of costs by a contractor.

   3307.5. If an initial review of the facts results in a challenge of a specific
   cost by the contracting officer or the contracting officer&#8217;s
   representative, the burden of proof shall be upon the contractor to establish
   that such cost is reasonable.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1653 (February 26, 1988); as
   Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 1429 (February 6, 2004).
