                                  DC REGULATIONS

LOBBYING COSTS (ยง 27-3355)

3355.1. Costs associated with activities that involve attempts to influence
   the outcome of any District, federal, state, or local election, referendum,
   initiative, or similar procedure, including in-kind or cash contributions,
   endorsements, publicity, or similar activities, shall not be allowable.

   3355.2. Costs associated with establishing, administering, contributing to, or
   paying the expenses of a political party, campaign, political action
   committee, or other organization established for the purpose of influencing
   the outcomes of elections shall not be allowable.

   3355.3. Costs associated with any attempt to influence the introduction of
   District, federal, state, or local legislation, or the enactment or
   modification of any pending District, federal, state, or local legislation
   through communication with any member or employee of the Council, the
   Congress, or any state or local legislature, or any government official or
   employee in connection with a decision to sign or veto enrolled legislation
   shall not allowable.

   3355.4. Costs associated with any attempt to influence the introduction of
   District, federal, state or local legislation, or the enactment or
   modification of any pending District, federal, state, or local legislation by
   preparing, distributing, or using publicity or propaganda, or by urging any
   member of the public to contribute to or participate in any mass
   demonstration, march, rally, fundraising drive, lobbying campaign, or letter
   writing or telephone campaign shall not be allowable.

   3355.5. Costs associated with legislative liaison activities, including
   attendance at legislative sessions or committee hearings, gathering
   information regarding legislation, and analyzing the effect of legislation,
   when those activities are carried on in support of or in preparation for an
   effort to engage in other activities for which costs are not allowed under
   this section, shall not be allowable.

   3355.6. The costs of providing a technical and factual presentation of
   information on a topic directly related to the performance of a contract
   through hearing testimony, statements or letters to the Council or the
   Congress, including any committee, subdivision, member, or staff member, in
   response to a documented request made by or on behalf of the recipient member
   or legislative body shall be allowable if the information is readily
   obtainable and can be readily put in deliverable form.

   3355.7. Costs for transportation, lodging, or meals in connection with the
   activities authorized under ยง3355.6 shall not be allowable unless incurred
   for the purpose of offering testimony at a regularly scheduled Council or
   congressional hearing pursuant to a written request for the presentation from
   the committee or subcommittee conducting the hearing.

   3355.8. The costs of an activity specifically authorized by statute to be
   undertaken with funds from the contract shall be allowable.

   3355.9. When a contractor seeks reimbursement for indirect costs, total costs
   for the activities set forth in this section shall be separately identified in
   the indirect cost rate proposal, and shall be treated as unallowable activity
   costs.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1676 (February 26, 1988).
