                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPENSATION FOR EMPLOYEE SERVICES (ยง 27-3340)

3340.1. Compensation for employee services shall include all remuneration paid
   or accrued, in any form and whether paid immediately or deferred, for services
   rendered by employees to the contractor during the period of contract
   performance.

   3340.2. Compensation for employee services shall be allowable when the work is
   performed by the employee in the current year and does not represent a
   retroactive adjustment of a prior year&#8217;s salaries or wages.

   3340.3. The total compensation for employee services shall be reasonable for
   the work performed. Specific restrictions on individual compensation elements
   shall be observed where they are prescribed in the contract or advance cost
   agreement.

   3340.4. Increases in costs for compensation for employee services shall not be
   allowable when the contractor introduces new or major revisions to existing
   compensation plans, unless the contractor does the following before the
   changes are implemented:
   
   
   
   (a)	Notifies the contracting officer of the changes; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Allows the contracting officer an opportunity to review the allowability
   of the changes.

   3340.5. Costs that are not allowable under other sections of this chapter
   shall not be allowable solely on the basis that they constitute compensation
   for employee services.

   3340.6. Compensation for employee services shall be considered reasonable to
   the extent that the total amount paid or accrued is commensurate with
   compensation paid under the contractor&#8217;s established policy, and the
   amount conforms generally to compensation paid by other firms of the same
   size, in the same industry, or in the same geographic area for similar
   services.

   3340.7. The contracting officer shall determine whether compensation of the
   following persons, and their spouses or children, is reasonable for the
   services performed or is a distribution of profits;
   
   
   
   (a)	Owners of closely held corporations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Partners; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Sole proprietors.

   3340.8. Bonuses and incentive compensation shall be allowable to the extent
   that the overall compensation is determined to be reasonable, and the costs
   are paid or accrued pursuant to an agreement entered into in good faith
   between the contractor and the employee before the services are rendered or
   pursuant to an established, consistently applied plan followed by the
   contractor.

   3340.9. The contracting officer shall consider severance pay allowable where
   it is required by law, an employer-employee agreement, established policy that
   constitutes an obligation of the contractor, or circumstances of the
   particular employment.

   3340.10. The contracting officer shall allow pension costs to the extent that
   the costs are reasonable and meet the following criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	The costs are funded by the time set for filing the federal income tax
   return or any extension to be considered in the current year; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The costs are paid pursuant to an agreement between the contractor and
   employees before the services are rendered and pursuant to an established plan
   that is consistently applied.

   3340.11. The contracting officer shall allow the costs of fringe benefits to
   the extent that they are reasonable and required by law, by an
   employer-employee agreement, or as an established, consistently applied policy
   of the contractor.

   3340.12. Legitimate costs incurred on activities designed to improve working
   conditions, employee morale, and employee performance shall be allowable. If a
   net profit is generated by these services, it shall be treated as a credit as
   provided in ยง3310 of this chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1670 (February 26, 1988).
