                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS (ยง 27-3300)

3300.1. The cost principles and procedures set forth in this chapter shall be
   used when cost analysis is performed in connection with any contract or
   solicitation under the District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 1985,
   D.C. Law 6-85 (the &#8220;Act&#8221;), in accordance with the Act or this
   title.

   3300.2. The cost principles and procedures set forth in this chapter shall be
   used by the contracting officer to negotiate or to determine reimbursable
   costs or the allowability of claims for reimbursement of costs in accordance
   with the clause, approved by the Director, contained in all cost-reimbursement
   contracts in accordance with ยง310(b) of the Act.

   3300.3. In accordance with ยง601 of the Act, the cost principles and
   procedures set forth in this chapter shall be used in the following
   situations:
   
   
   
   (a)	The pricing or estimation of costs in contracts based on other than
   competitive sealed bidding;
   
   
   
   (b)	The pricing or estimation of costs in change orders or contract
   modifications;
   
   
   
   (c)	Settlement of contract costs for contracts which have been terminated; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Allowability of costs under contract provisions which provide for
   reimbursement of costs.

   3300.4. In addition to those contracts where the application of cost
   principles is required under the Act or this title, the contracting officer
   may include a clause, approved by the Director, requiring the use of cost
   principles and procedures set forth in this chapter to determine the
   allowability of estimated or incurred costs in any contract where the
   contracting officer determines that the negotiation, allowance, determination,
   or estimation of costs may be required or necessary.

   3300.5. The application of cost principles to fixed-price contracts and
   subcontracts shall not be construed as a requirement to negotiate agreements
   on individual elements of cost in arriving at agreement on the total price.
   The final price accepted by the parties may reflect agreement only on the
   total price.

   3300.6. The cost principles and procedures set forth in this chapter shall not
   apply to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The establishment of prices under contracts awarded on the basis of
   competitive sealed bidding;
   
   
   
   (b)	Prices fixed by law or regulation; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Prices based on established catalog prices or established market prices.
   
   
   
   	AUTHORITY: Unless otherwise noted, the authority for this chapter is the
   District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 1985, D.C. Law 6-85, as
   amended, D.C. Code ยง1-1181.1 et seq. (1981).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1650 (February 26, 1988).
