                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 27-3399)

3399.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Actual costs &#8211; amounts determined on the basis of costs incurred, as
   distinguished from forecasted costs. Actual costs include standard costs
   properly adjusted for applicable variances.
   
   
   
   Advance cost agreement &#8211; an agreement between the District and a
   contractor concerning the treatment of special or unusual costs which are
   expected to be incurred.
   
   
   
   Advertising costs &#8211; costs of advertising and directly associated costs
   regardless of the medium employed, when the advertiser has control over the
   form and content of what will appear, the media in which it will appear, and
   when it will appear. Advertising media includes conventions, exhibits, free
   goods, samples, magazines, newspapers, trade papers, direct mail, dealer
   cards, window displays, outdoor advertising, and radio and television
   programs.
   
   
   
   Allocate &#8211; to assign an item of cost or a group of items of cost to one
   (1) or more cost objectives.
   
   
   
   Allowable costs &#8211; costs determined to be permissible based on
   reasonableness, allocability, and generally accepted accounting principles and
   practices appropriate to the particular circumstances.
   
   
   
   Bona fide employee &#8211; an employee who is employed in a specific position
   for a specific purpose relating to promoting or securing business for the
   contractor.
   
   
   
   Business unit &#8211; any segment of an organization or an entire business
   organization that is not divided into segments.
   
   
   
   Consultant &#8211; a firm or individual with knowledge and special abilities
   not generally available to an agency who renders services of a purely advisory
   nature relating to governmental functions or agency administration and
   management.
   
   
   
   Contingency costs &#8211; costs based on a possible future event or condition
   arising from presently known or unknown causes, the outcome of which is not
   determinable at the present time.
   
   
   
   Cost objective &#8211; a function, organizational subdivision, contract, or
   other work unit for which cost data are desired and for which provision is
   made to accumulate and measure the cost of processes, products, jobs, and
   capitalized projects.
   
   
   
   Council &#8211; the Council of the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Deferred compensation &#8211; an award made by an employer to compensate an
   employee in a future cost accounting period or periods for services rendered
   in one (1) or more cost accounting periods before the date of the receipt of
   compensation by the employee. This term does not include the amount of year
   end accruals for salaries, wages, or bonuses that are to be paid within a
   reasonable period of time after the end of a cost accounting period.
   
   
   
   Depreciation &#8211; a charge to current operations which distributes the cost
   of a tangible capital asset, less estimated residual value, over the estimated
   useful life of the asset in a systematic and logical manner. Useful life
   refers to the prospective period of economic usefulness in a particular
   contractor&#8217;s operations as distinguished from physical life, as
   evidenced by the actual or estimated retirement and replacement practice of
   the contractor.
   
   
   
   Direct cost &#8211; any cost that can be identified specifically with a
   particular final cost objective or is incurred directly for a particular
   contract.
   
   
   
   Directly associated cost &#8211; any cost which is generated solely as a
   result of the incurrence of another cost, and which would not have been
   incurred had the cost not been incurred.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the Office of Contracting and Procurement or
   the District of Columbia Chief Procurement Officer.
   
   
   
   Established commercial or selling agency &#8211; a firm whose primary products
   are activities designed to secure business for the contractor such as
   technical, consulting, or demonstration services.
   
   
   
   Estimating costs &#8211; the process of forecasting a future result in terms
   of cost based upon information available at the time.
   
   
   
   Expert &#8211; a person with excellent qualifications and a high degree of
   attainment in a professional, scientific, technical, or other field, whose
   knowledge and mastery of the principles, practices, problems, methods, and
   techniques of his or her field or activity, or of a specialized area in the
   field, are clearly superior to those usually possessed by ordinarily competent
   persons in that activity, and whose attainment is such that he or she usually
   is regarded as an authority or as a practitioner of unusual competence and
   skill by other persons in the profession, occupation, or activity.
   
   
   
   Expressly unallowable cost &#8211; a particular item or type of cost which,
   under the express provisions of an applicable law, regulation, or contract, is
   specifically named and stated to be unallowable.
   
   
   
   Final cost objective &#8211; a cost objective that has allocated to it both
   direct and indirect costs and, in the contractor&#8217;s accumulation system,
   is one of the final accumulation points.
   
   
   
   Fiscal year &#8211; the accounting period for which annual financial
   statements are regularly prepared.
   
   
   
   Fringe benefits &#8211; allowances and services provided by the contractor to
   its employees as compensation in addition to regular wages and salaries.
   
   
   
   Indirect costs &#8211; any cost not directly identified with a single contract
   but identified with two (2) or more final cost objectives or an intermediate
   cost objective.
   
   
   
   Indirect cost pools &#8211; groupings of incurred costs identified with two
   (2) or more cost objectives but not identified specifically with any final
   cost objective.
   
   
   
   Insurance administration expenses &#8211; the contractor&#8217;s costs of
   administering an insurance program which may include the cost of operating an
   insurance or risk management department, processing claims, actuarial fees,
   and service fees paid to insurance companies, trustees, or technical
   consultants.
   
   
   
   Material costs &#8211; costs of items such as raw materials, parts,
   sub-assemblies, components, and manufacturing supplies, whether purchased or
   manufactured by the contractor, which may include such collateral items as
   inbound transportation and intransit insurance.
   
   
   
   Normal cost &#8211; the annual cost attributable to years subsequent to a
   particular valuation date under the actuarial cost method in use.
   
   
   
   Operating lease &#8211; the acquisition of real or personal property which is
   considered normal property to the operations of the contractor by lease or
   rental.
   
   
   
   Organization costs &#8211; costs such as incorporation fees and costs of
   attorneys, accountants, brokers, promoters, organizers, management
   consultants, and investment counselors, including employees of the contractor.
   
   
   
   Pension plan &#8211; a deferred compensation plan established and maintained
   by one (1) or more employers to provide systematically for the payment of
   benefits to plan participants after their retirements. The benefits are paid
   for life or are payable for life at the option of the employees. Additional
   benefits such as permanent and total disability, death payments, and
   survivorship payments to beneficiaries of deceased employees may be an
   integral part of a pension plan.
   
   
   
   Pension plan participant &#8211; any employee or former employee of an
   employer, or any member or former member of an employee organization, who is
   or may become eligible to receive a benefit from a pension plan that covers
   employees of such employer or members of such organization and who have
   satisfied the plan&#8217;s participation requirements. Beneficiaries receiving
   benefits or who may be eligible to receive benefits are included in this term.
   
   
   
   Pre-contract costs &#8211; costs incurred before the effective date of the
   contract directly pursuant to the negotiation and in anticipation of the
   contract award when those costs are necessary to comply with the proposed
   contract delivery schedule.
   
   
   
   Preparatory costs &#8211; an initial cost, such as those costs incurred for
   initial plant rearrangement and alterations, management and personnel
   organization, and production planning.
   
   
   
   Pricing &#8211; the process of establishing a reasonable amount or amounts to
   be paid for goods or services.
   
   
   
   Profit center &#8211; the smallest organizationally independent segment of a
   company charged by management with profit and loss responsibilities.
   
   
   
   Proposal &#8211; any offer or other submission used as a basis for pricing a
   contract, contract modification, or termination settlement or for securing
   payments thereunder.
   
   
   
   Rental costs &#8211; costs of renting or leasing real or personal property,
   except automatic data processing equipment.
   
   
   
   Residual value &#8211; the proceeds, less removal and disposal costs, if any,
   realized upon disposition of a tangible capital asset. It usually is measured
   by the net proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the asset or its
   fair market value if the asset is traded in on another asset. The estimated
   residual value is a current forecast of the residual value.
   
   
   
   Selling costs &#8211; costs that arise in the marketing of the
   contractor&#8217;s products and includes costs of sales promotions,
   negotiation, liaison between District representatives and the
   contractor&#8217;s personnel, and related activities.
   
   
   
   Service life &#8211; the period of usefulness of a tangible capital asset or
   group of assets to its current owner. The period may be expressed in units of
   time or output. The estimated service life of a tangible capital asset or
   group of assets is a current forecast of its service life and is the period
   over which depreciation cost is to be assigned.
   
   
   
   Special test equipment &#8211; single or multi-purpose integrated test units
   engineered, designed, fabricated, or modified to accomplish special purpose
   testing in performing a contract. It consists of items or assemblies of
   equipment that are interconnected and interdependent so as to become a new
   functional entity for special testing purposes. It does not include material,
   special tooling, facilities, and plant equipment items used for general plant
   testing purposes.
   
   
   
   Special tooling &#8211; jigs, dies, fixtures, molds, patterns, taps, gauges,
   other equipment and manufacturing aids, all components of these items, and
   replacement of these items, which are of such a specialized nature that,
   without substantial modification or alteration, their use is limited to the
   development or production of particular goods or parts thereof or to the
   performance of particular services. It does not include material, special test
   equipment, facilities, general or special machine tools, or similar capital
   items.
   
   
   
   Standard cost &#8211; any cost computed with the use of pre-established
   measures.
   
   
   
   Tangible capital asset &#8211; an asset that has physical substance, more than
   minimal value, and is expected to be held by an enterprise for continued use
   or possession beyond the current accounting period for the services it yields.
   
   
   
   Unallowable cost &#8211; any cost that, under the provisions of any pertinent
   law, regulation, or contract, cannot be included in prices,
   cost-reimbursements, or settlements under a District contract to which it is
   allocable.
   
   
   
   Variance &#8211; the difference between a pre-established measure and an
   actual measure.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1679 (February 26, 1988).
