                                  DC REGULATIONS

TAXES (ยง 27-3335)

3335.1. Except as provided in ยง3335.2, District, federal, state, and local
   taxes that are required to be and are paid or accrued in accordance with
   generally accepted accounting principles shall be allowable.

   3335.2. The following costs shall not be allowable:
   
   
   
   (a)	District, federal, state, and local income taxes and federal excess profit
   taxes;
   
   
   
   (b)	All taxes from which the contractor could have obtained an exemption but
   failed to do so, except where the administrative cost of obtaining the
   exemption would have exceeded the tax savings realized from the exemption;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any interest, fines, or penalties paid on delinquent taxes unless incurred
   at the written direction of the contracting officer;
   
   
   
   (d)	Income tax accruals designed to account for the tax effects of differences
   between taxable income and pre-tax income as reflected by the
   contractor&#8217;s books of accounts and financial statements;
   
   
   
   (e)	Taxes in connection with financing, refinancing, refunding operations, or
   reorganization;
   
   
   
   (f)	Special assessments on land that represent capital improvements;
   
   
   
   (g)	Taxes (including excise taxes) on real or personal property (or on the
   value, use, possession, or sale of personal property) which is used solely in
   connection with work other than on District contracts; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Taxes on accumulated funding deficiencies of, or prohibited transactions
   involving, employee deferred compensation plans pursuant to the Internal
   Revenue Code.

   3335.3. Any taxes, interest, or penalties that were allowed as contract costs
   and are refunded to the contractor shall be credited or paid to the District
   in the manner the District directs. However, any interest actually paid or
   credited to a contractor incident to a refund of tax, interest, or penalty
   shall be paid or credited to the District only to the extent that the interest
   accrued over the period during which the contractor had been reimbursed by the
   District for the taxes, interest, or penalties.

   3335.4. Direct government charges for services, such as water or capital
   improvements, are not considered taxes and shall not be allowable.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1669 (February 26, 1988).
