                                  DC REGULATIONS

INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION COSTS (ยง 27-3332)

3332.1. The cost of required or approved insurance that is maintained by the
   contractor pursuant to the contract shall be allowable.

   3332.2. The cost of insurance maintained by the contractor in connection with
   the general conduct of its business shall be allowable, in accordance with the
   provisions of this section.

   3332.3. The contracting officer shall determine that the types and extent of
   coverage follow sound business practice and that the rates and premiums are
   reasonable.

   3332.4. Costs allowed for business interruption or other similar insurance
   shall exclude the cost of coverage for loss of profit.

   3332.5. The cost of property insurance premiums for insurance coverage in
   excess of the acquisition cost of the insured assets shall be allowable only
   when the contractor has a formal written policy assuring that, in the event
   the insured property is involuntarily converted, the new asset shall be valued
   at the book value of the replaced asset, plus or minus adjustments for
   differences between insurance proceeds and actual replacement cost. If the
   contractor does not have a formal written policy with this assurance, the cost
   of premiums for insurance coverage in excess of the acquisition cost of the
   insured asset shall not be allowable.

   3332.6. Costs of insurance for the risk of loss of or damage to District
   property shall be allowable only to the extent that the contractor is liable
   for loss or damage to District property, and to the extent that insurance does
   not cover loss or damage that results from willful misconduct or lack of good
   faith on the part of the contractor, its directors, officers, or agents.

   3332.7. Actual losses shall not be allowable unless expressly provided for in
   the contract except as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Losses incurred under the nominal deductible provisions of purchased
   insurance, in keeping with sound business practices, shall be allowable when
   the contractor did not establish a self-insurance program; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Minor losses, such as spoilage, breakage, and disappearance of small hand
   tools, that occur in the ordinary course of doing business and that are not
   covered by insurance shall be allowable.

   3332.8. The cost of insurance to protect the contractor against the costs of
   correcting its own defects in materials or workmanship shall not be allowable.
   However, insurance costs to cover fortuitous or casualty losses resulting from
   defects in materials or workmanship shall be allowable as a normal business
   expense.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1666 (February 26, 1988),
