                                  DC REGULATIONS

MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS (ยง 29-1637)

1637.1. Each child-placing agency shall have a written policy to protect the
   confidentiality of personnel and client records.

   1637.2. The Board of any child-placing agency may be appropriate vote
   authorize the disclosure of non-identifying information to any accredited
   institution of higher learning, federal or District of Columbia agency, or any
   foundation or research institution as may be validly engaged in studies for
   the promotion of scientific knowledge. The institution or agency shall submit
   to the child-placing agency a request for information which shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	The purpose for which the information is sought;
   
   
   
   (b)	A plan of how the confidentiality of the information will be protected;
   
   
   
   (c)	The persons in the organization who will have access to the information;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	A guarantee that the information will not be disclosed to another person
   or agency unless the organization is expressly authorized to make the
   disclosure by the Board of the child-placing agency.

   1637.3. The Board may, in its discretion, attach additional limitations on the
   disclosure of information to an agency or institution.

   1637.4. All records shall be kept in metal file cabinets protected from fire,
   theft, and unauthorized access.

   1637.5. Child-placing agencies that cease placing children shall make
   arrangements to protect and store the records. Record storage may be arranged
   with the Department of Human Services or another licensed child-placing
   agency.

   1637.6. All adoption and foster care services records shall be retained
   permanently.

   1637.7. If a child has been reunited with his or her biological family prior
   to reaching majority, the case records shall be retained until one year after
   the child has reached the age of twenty-one (21). After the child reaches the
   age of twenty-one (21), the following shall be maintained:
   
   
   
   (a)	Medical records;
   
   
   
   (b)	Names and addresses of foster parents;
   
   
   
   (c)	Date of placements; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Legal documents.

   1637.8. Personnel and financial records maintained by the child-placing agency
   shall be maintained for at least seven (7) years.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 3033, 3061 (May 11, 1990).
