                                  DC REGULATIONS

INTERNATIONAL ADOPTION PLACEMENTS (§ 29-1636)

1636.1. The child-placing agency shall give each applicant a written statement
   which shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement of the agency’s purpose, philosophy, and policies;
   
   
   
   (b)	The agency’s eligibility criteria;
   
   
   
   (c)	The availability of children;
   
   
   
   (d)	Agency procedures and responsibilities;
   
   
   
   (e)	Timing;
   
   
   
   (f)	Fees for services;
   
   
   
   (g)	Refund policies and procedures; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Services termination policies and procedures.

   1636.2. The child-placing agency shall ensure that each applicant applies for
   services in writing on an application form furnished by the agency.

   1636.3. Each applicant shall sign a statement acknowledging that he or she
   received a copy of the agency’s policies as required in §1636.1. This
   statement shall be kept in the applicant’s records.

   1636.4. The child-placing agency shall secure written consent to obtain the
   information needed to complete the home study process from each applicant.

   1636.5. Each child-placing agency shall provide home study services to
   families who are residents of the District of Columbia and adjacent
   jurisdictions under a reciprocity agreement. Home study services shall include
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Information on the how to comply with the United States Immigration and
   Naturalization’s requirements for international adoptions;
   
   
   
   (b)	Consultations with the family to acquaint them with the current
   international adoption situation, exploration of the adoptive parents’
   feelings about adopting a child of a different race or national origin, and
   the adoptive parents’ capacity to accept limited medical and social
   background information about the child and the implications thereof; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Documentation of the home study process in a written report.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 3033, 3060 (May 11, 1990).
