                                  DC REGULATIONS

CASE PLAN (§ 29-1619)

1619.1. Each child-placing agency shall develop a written case plan on each
   child prior to placement. In cases of emergency placements, the assessment and
   case plan shall be initiated within one (1) week and completed within six (6)
   weeks of placement.

   1619.2. Each case plan shall include the followings:
   
   
   
   (a)	Documentation of whether available social services to preserve and
   strengthen the family unit have been provided to the family and child and that
   all alternatives to placement and their consequences have been explored;
   
   
   
   (b)	The reasons for the selection of the type of care and how it meets the
   child’s and family’s needs;
   
   
   
   (c)	Projected length of time in care;
   
   
   
   (d)	Pre-placement activities with child and family;
   
   
   
   (e)	Specific initial case goals for the child and family and steps to
   accomplish goals;
   
   
   
   (f)	Specific time schedule to achieve the goals;
   
   
   
   (g)	Designation of responsibility for carrying out steps with the child,
   parents, foster parents, adoptive parents, and the court (when involved),
   including frequency of contacts;
   
   
   
   (h)	Visitation plans between the child, parents, and siblings, if appropriate;
   
   
   
   (i)	Date for first review of progress on steps and goals;
   
   
   
   (j)	Conditions under which the child shall be returned home or when steps
   shall be taken to seek termination of parental rights;
   
   
   
   (k)	The names and addresses of the child’s health and educational providers;
   
   
   
   (l)	The child’s grade level performance and school record;
   
   
   
   (m)	Assurances that the child’s placement in foster care takes into account
   proximity to the school in which the child is enrolled at the time of
   placement;
   
   
   
   (n)	A record of the child’s immunizations;
   
   
   
   (o)	The child’s known medical problems and medications; and
   
   
   
   (p)	Any other relevant health and education information concerning the child
   determined to be appropriate.

   1619.3. Each child-placing agency shall include the parents, other significant
   persons, and the child (when appropriate to age and understanding) in the
   development of placement and care plans.

   1619.4. Before accepting a child for placement, each child-placing agency
   shall secure written authorization to place the child from the parents,
   guardians, or court.

   1619.5. Before accepting a child for placement, each child-placing agency
   shall secure written authorization to provide medical care from the parents,
   guardians or court to provide medical care.

   1619.6. Each child-placing agency shall assist the parent(s) in understanding
   the legal rights and obligations that they retain and those delegated to the
   agency by the court. The agency shall provide this information to the parents
   in writing and shall document this action in the case record.

   1619.7. Each child-placing agency shall provide information on the legal
   rights and obligation of the parties in adoptions to parents in their own
   language if English is not easily understood.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 3033, 3043 (May 11, 1990).
