                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRE-PLACEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES OF CHILD-PLACING AGENCIES (§ 29-1623)

1623.1. Prior to placement of a child for adoption, the child-placing agency
   shall establish through documentary evidence that the child meets one (1) of
   the following criteria:
   
   
   
   (a)	The child is legally free for adoption in accordance with the laws of the
   District of Columbia; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The child is legally able to enter the District of Columbia for adoption
   in accordance with the laws of the District of Columbia.

   1623.2. If a family identifies a child for adoption outside of the District of
   Columbia, the family shall notify a child-placing agency located in the
   District of Columbia of the identification of the child and of all available
   information regarding the child. The child-placing agency shall evaluate the
   information provided on the child and the background of the prospective
   parents to determine the appropriateness of the placement.

   1623.3. After a review of the information provided to the agency, the
   child-placing agency shall notify the prospective, rents of its assessment of
   the appropriateness of the placement.

   1623.4. If the child is identified by the family in another country, the
   family shall contact the child-placing agency to provide all information
   available about the child.

   1623.5. The child-placing agency shall notify the family and the United States
   Immigration and Naturalization Service of its agreement or disagreement with a
   proposed placement of a child identified in another country.

   1623.6. The child-placing agency shall ensure that prior to the placement of
   the child, the adoptive parents sign a notarized statement of financial
   responsibility for the expenses for replacement of the child in the event a
   disruption should occur prior to adoption in the local jurisdiction. The
   statement shall be placed by the agency in the family’s file.

   1623.7. The local child-placing agency shall notify the Department of Human
   Services of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The date of placement;
   
   
   
   (b)	The legal status of the child; and
   
   
   
   (c)	That the statement of financial responsibility has been completed and
   placed in the agency’s family file.

   1623.8. Each child-placing agency shall maintain all adoptive placement
   agreements in the family records on the family’s acceptance of a child
   identified for adoption outside the District of Columbia.

   1623.9. The child-placing agency shall be notified in all interstate adoptions
   of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The date of the placement; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The legal status of the child.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 3033, 3050 (May 11, 1990).
