                                  DC REGULATIONS

JOB FUNCTIONS AND STAFF QUALIFICATIONS (§ 29-1613)

1613.1. Each child-placing agency shall employ a minimum of three (3) persons
   including an executive director, director of social services, and office staff
   person.

   1613.2. The executive director shall manage and administer the agency in
   accordance with the licensing requirements and policies of the governing body.
   The executive director shall prepare the annual budget in conjunction with the
   Board, and keep the Board informed of the financial needs of the agency.

   1613.3. The executive director shall have a doctoral degree or a master’s
   degree plus three (3) years of experience in a social services agency or
   program, including one (1) year in administration.

   1613.4. Section 1613.3 shall not apply to a person employed as executive
   director prior to the effective date of this chapter.

   1613.5. If the executive director’s degree is not in social work from a
   college or university accredited by the Council on Social Work Education, then
   a director/supervisor of social services shall be responsible for all caseload
   services.

   1613.6. The executive director shall be responsible for case work decisions
   except where a director of social services has been assigned those duties. The
   duties shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ensuring that the child-placing agency complies with this chapter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Developing, implementing, and maintaining policies and procedures for the
   operation of the program;
   
   
   
   (c)	Representing the child-placing agency in the community and in cooperation
   with the governing body, interpreting the financial needs of the child-placing
   agency and the population it serves;
   
   
   
   (d)	Delegating responsibilities to staff;
   
   
   
   (e)	Recruiting, supervising, evaluating, training, and terminating staff in
   accordance with established personnel policies; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Advising the governing body in carrying out its responsibilities and
   making recommendations for needed changes in policy and assisting in periodic
   evaluation of the agency’s services.

   1613.7. The director of social services shall supervise, evaluate, and monitor
   the work of the social services staff and assist in the formulation and
   implementation of the child-placing agency’s policies and programs.

   1613.8. The director of social services shall have a master’s degree in
   social work from a college or university accredited by the Council on Social
   Work Education, plus three (3) years experience in providing casework services
   to children and their families including one (1) year as an administrator or
   supervisor of casework services.

   1613.9. Office staff shall have the responsibility of bookkeeping and
   maintaining correspondence and personnel and client records.

   1613.10. A child-placing agency shall employ a person to supervise program
   staff and casework activities. The supervisor shall have a master’s degree
   in social work from a college or university accredited by the Council on
   Social Work Education, plus two (2) years of experience in providing casework
   services to families and children and shall be licensed as a social worker in
   the District of Columbia.

   1613.11. A social worker shall provide services to children, birth parents,
   foster and adoptive families, and any other individual involved in a case.
   Social workers shall have a master’s degree in social work from a college or
   university accredited by the Council on Social Work Education and shall be
   licensed as a social worker in the District of Columbia.

   1613.12. Social services aides shall assist the social worker. A social
   services aide shall have a bachelor’s degree in social work from a college
   or university accredited by the Council on Social Work Education or a
   bachelor’s degree in a related field.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 3033, 3039 (May 11, 1990).
