                                  DC REGULATIONS

SOCIAL SERVICES RELATED TO CHILD-PLACING (§ 29-1628)

1628.1. The child-placing agency shall give the birth parents an opportunity
   to discuss the options available to them regarding the placement of the child.

   1628.2. When it is considered to be in the best interest of the child, the
   child-placing agency shall provide social services to the birth family and
   make referrals to other community resources to help maintain the family unit.

   1628.3. The birth parents shall be given information concerning the legal and
   other ramifications of adoption and the legal implications of the decision.

   1628.4. Each child-placing agency shall provide counseling and casework
   services during the decision-making process for the prospective adoptive
   parent.

   1628.5. Each child-placing agency shall provide older children with counseling
   and casework services during all phases of the adoption process.

   1628.6. Prior to accepting a child for any placement, a child-placing agency
   shall obtain written consent to place the child from the legally responsible
   person or entity which may be the birth parent, guardian, or court.

   1628.7. Prior to accepting a child for placement, a child-placing agency shall
   obtain written consent to provide routine or emergency medical care from the
   birth parent, legal guardian, or court.

   1628.8. After accepting a child for placement from another child-placing
   agency, a child-placing agency shall establish an agreement which will set out
   the child-placing agency responsible for developing a written statement of the
   role and responsibilities of each child-placing agency in working with the
   child, birth family, foster family, and adoptive family.

   1628.9. Each child-placing agency shall provide counseling and casework
   services to the birth parent and his or her family during all phases of the
   adoption process.

   1628.10. The child-placing agency shall not encourage the parent or parents of
   the child to surrender the child by coercion or promise of financial aid or
   other considerations, nor shall the parent’s acceptance for casework service
   be contingent upon any agreement to surrender the child.

   1628.11. At the time of relinquishment of a child, the birth parent shall sign
   a notarized statement setting out any financial or in-kind compensation
   promised or received for surrendering the child.

   1628.12. If the child-placing agency has offered services to a birth parent
   who has indicated a desire to place a child for adoption and the child is born
   with or develops a problem that might make placement difficult, the agency may
   refuse to accept legal custody of the child.

   1628.13. If the child-placing agency refuses to accept legal custody of the
   child, the agency shall offer services to the child and birth parents to make
   arrangements consistent with the parents’ wishes and the child’s best
   interest.

   1628.14. Each child-placing agency shall maintain a written record of the
   casework services provided to each birth parent and child. The parents’ and
   children’s records may be combined or maintained separately. If maintained
   separately, the records shall be cross referenced. The records shall include
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Birth parents record shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Full name of birth parents;
   
   
   
   (2)	Address;
   
   
   
   (3)	Telephone number;
   
   
   
   (4)	Race;
   
   
   
   (5)	Sex;
   
   
   
   (6)	Date and place of birth;
   
   
   
   (7)	Nationality;
   
   
   
   (8)	Health and multi-generational history;
   
   
   
   (9)	Full name of other birth children;
   
   
   
   (10)	Marital status;
   
   
   
   (11)	Education;
   
   
   
   (12)	Physical description;
   
   
   
   (13)	Full names of birth parent’s siblings and significant others;
   
   
   
   (14)	Social security number, if available;
   
   
   
   (15)	Occupation;
   
   
   
   (16)	Religion;
   
   
   
   (17)	Documents pertaining to child’s legal status which may include a foster
   care commitment order, relinquishment or judicial termination of parental
   rights (TPR); and
   
   
   
   (18)	Summary of the family history and an assessment of circumstances leading
   to the placement of the child and current progress reports; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The child’s record which shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Full name;
   
   
   
   (2)	Address and telephone number of birth parents;
   
   
   
   (3)	Race;
   
   
   
   (3)	Sex;
   
   
   
   (4)	Date and place of birth;
   
   
   
   (5)	Nationality;
   
   
   
   (6)	Health including medical history of past generations;
   
   
   
   (7)	Physician’s report, illnesses, immunization reports, and dental records;
   
   
   
   (8)	Full names of children, siblings, grandparents and significant others of
   birth parents;
   
   
   
   (9)	Social security number, if available;
   
   
   
   (10)	Birth history;
   
   
   
   (11)	Developmental history;
   
   
   
   (12)	Birth certificate number;
   
   
   
   (13)	Daily scheduled activities;
   
   
   
   (14)	School records;
   
   
   
   (15)	Dates of placement and address and names of adoptive foster parents;
   
   
   
   (16)	Documents pertaining to the child’s legal status; and
   
   
   
   (17)	Summary of family history and an assessment of circumstances leading to
   the case plan for the child and maintain progress reports.

   1628.15. Each child-placing agency shall maintain current information on the
   parties involved in an adoption until the time of final adoption.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 3033, 3054 (May 11, 1990).
