                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 29-1645)

1645.1. When used in this chapter the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meaning ascribed below:
   
   
   
   Adoptee &#8211; the person whose legal status is changed once a decree of
   adoption has been entered.
   
   
   
   Adoption &#8211; a social and legal process designed to establish a legal
   parent child relationship giving a child the same rights and benefits of one
   who is born to the adoptive parents.
   
   
   
   Adoptive family &#8211; a household which has been approved by a child-placing
   agency to accept a child for adoption, which may be awaiting placement of a
   child or may have a child in the home.
   
   
   
   Adoptive parent &#8211; a single or married person with whom a child has been
   placed for adoption or who has adopted a child.
   
   
   
   Adoptive placement &#8211; arranging for the care of a child who is in the
   custody of a child-placing agency in an approved home for the purpose of
   adoption.
   
   
   
   Agency assisted adoption &#8211; an adoption in which a child-placing agency
   provides a home study and post-placement supervision services and is
   responsible for facilitating the linkage with persons, institutions, or
   agencies located either in a foreign country or in the United States. The
   adoptive parent(s) may have either guardianship or final foreign decree of
   adoption of the child when the child arrives in the United States.
   
   
   
   Agency placement adoption &#8211; an adoption in which a child-placing agency
   identifies and arranges placement for a foreign child. The child-placing
   agency provides home study and post placement supervision services, and is
   responsible for facilitating the linkage with child-placing institutions or
   agencies located either in a foreign country or in the United States. The
   child-placing agency holds guardianship of the child when he or she arrives in
   the United States and consents to the adoption.
   
   
   
   Birth parent &#8211; a biological parent of a child.
   
   
   
   Child &#8211; any individual under 16 years of age.
   
   
   
   Child placement service &#8211; social work and other professional services
   provided by the public agency or licensed child-placing agency for birth
   parents, children, adoptive parent(s), and foster parent(s) in those cases
   where children may be in need of substitute or permanent care.
   
   
   
   Child-placing agency &#8211; any person, firm, corporation, association, or
   public agency that receives or accepts child(ren) under 16 years of age and
   places or offers to place such child for temporary or permanent care in a
   family home other than that of a relative within the third degree.
   
   
   
   Foster care &#8211; the provision of substitute care and supervision for a
   child entrusted to a public agency or a licensed child-placing agency, or for
   whom the public agency or a licensed child-placing agency has accepted
   supervision, in a temporary living situation until the child can return to his
   or her family or be placed in an adoptive home or reach the age of majority.
   
   
   
   Foster care placement &#8211; placement of a child in the custody of a
   child-placing agency into a suitable foster home.
   
   
   
   Foster home &#8211; a household of one or more persons that provides
   continuing full-time care for one to four foster children, ages 0 through 20
   years, living apart from their parents, guardian(s), or relatives.
   
   
   
   Foster parent &#8211; an individual approved by the child-placing agency who
   provides supervision and care on a 24-hour basis for a child who must receive
   care out of his own home.
   
   
   
   International adoption &#8211; a process by which a married couple or single
   individual of one country adopts a child from another country, thereby
   establishing a legal and social relationship of parent and child.
   
   
   
   Petition &#8211; petition for adoption filed with the Court.
   
   
   
   Post-adoptive services &#8211; those services provided to meet the ongoing
   needs of the family once the adoption has been finalized both in the United
   States and in the child’s country of origin in the case of inter-country
   adoption.
   
   
   
   Post-placement services &#8211; those services in which the child-placing
   agency supervises, monitors, and evaluates the child and family from the time
   of placement for a period of at least six (6) months or until the finalization
   of the adoption.
   
   
   
   Reciprocity agreement &#8211; a child-placing agreement between the Mayor of
   the District of Columbia and the Maryland Department of Human Resources
   entered into April 7, 1986.
   
   
   
   Record &#8211; the individual file(s) kept by an agency concerning a child who
   has been accepted for care or adoptive placement, the child’s family,
   adoptive applicant or family, foster family, and agency employees.
   
   
   
   Relinquishment &#8211; the legal document voluntarily executed by the natural
   parent(s) severing all of their parental rights and responsibilities to their
   child and transferring these rights and responsibilities to a child-placing
   agency for the purposes of placing the child in an adoptive home and
   consenting to adoption.
   
   
   
   Significant others &#8211; any person of particular importance in the life of
   the client.
   
   
   
   Social services agency &#8211; an agency or program in which the purpose is to
   promote social welfare, e. g., a public welfare department, a family service
   agency. Educational facilities, legal services facilities, correctional
   institutions, health and medical facilities are not considered to be social
   service agencies; however, persons employed in social service programs
   operated by those facilities may meet the specified qualifications.
   
   
   
   Termination of parental rights &#8211; a court order relieving natural parents
   of all rights, responsibilities, and relationship with a child.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 3033, 3069 (May 11, 1990).
