                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 28-699)

For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning
ascribed:





“Department of Corrections facility” – means a facility that houses an
inmate committed to the District of Columbia Department of Corrections.





“Disciplinary violation” – means a guilty finding pursuant to the
Department of Corrections Policy on Inmate Discipline and Administrative Housing
for any institutional Class I, II, and III offenses as defined in Chapter 5 of
this title.





“Disciplinary Board” – means a Board established pursuant to the
Department of Corrections Policy on Inmate Discipline and Administrative Housing
that conducts hearings, makes findings, and imposes appropriate sanctions for
incidents of inmate disciplinary violations.





“Expiration of the sentence” – means that an inmate’s sentence has
expired, requiring the release from incarceration without further supervision of
an inmate because he or she:





Has served the maximum term of commitment; or





Has served the maximum term of commitment less the diminution credits awarded
pursuant to the District of Columbia Good Time Credits Act of 1986, effective
April 11, 1987 (D.C. Law 6-218; D.C. Official Code § 24-221.01 et seq.).





“Good time credit” – means either good behavior credit pursuant to section
603.4 or other credit or pursuant to sections 603.5, 603.6, or 603.7 earned as a
result of successful participation in rehabilitative programs, work details, and
special projects.





“Incarceration” – means residence resulting from pretrial or presentence
detention, a sentence, or detention pending a hearing on revocation of probation
or release in the Central Detention Facility, Correctional Treatment Facility,
or another secure facility under contract to the District of Columba Department
of Corrections.





“Rehabilitative program” – means a program providing opportunities for
self improvement, including treatment, academic, or vocational programs.





“Special project” – means a designated, non-recurring project.





“Successful participation” means active and constructive participation and
includes satisfactory attendance and compliance with any rehabilitative program,
work detail, or special project.





“Term of commitment” – means the period of an inmate’s current
incarceration.  The term “term of commitment” includes the following:





A single sentence;





A combination of concurrent sentences (a concurrent sentence is two (2) or more
sentences that run simultaneously), in which case the term of commitment is the
period of commitment between the earliest starting date of those sentences and
the latest expiration date of those sentences;





A combination of consecutive sentences (a consecutive sentence is two (2) or
more sentences following one after the other in uninterrupted succession), in
which case the term of commitment is the period of commitment between the
starting date of the first consecutive sentence and the expiration of the last
consecutive sentence;





A combination of concurrent and consecutive sentences in which case the term of
commitment is the period of commitment between the earliest starting date of the
sentences and the last expiration date of the sentences;





A combination of sentences imposed before and after release on parole or
probation and the probation or parole is revoked, in which case the term of
commitment is the period of commitment between the earliest starting date of the
sentences and the latest expiration date of the sentences, excluding time out of
custody for which credit is not allowed.





“Work detail” – means assignment to a recurring task pursuant to an
institutional work program.

	SOURCE: District of Columbia Good Time Credits Amendment Act of 2010, effective
May 17, 2011 (D.C. Law 18-372), published at 58 DCR 7 (January 7, 2011).
