                                  DC REGULATIONS

FILING AND PRESENTATION OF COMPLAINTS (§ 4-106)

106.1. A verified and written complaint of discrimination shall be submitted
   by the complainant to the Director within fifteen (15) days of the date of the
   complainant’s final interview with the EEO Counselor.

   106.2. The time limit for filing may be extended by the Director for good
   cause shown.

   106.3. Upon filing of a complaint, the Director shall provide a copy to the
   agency representative of the agency in which the complainant is employed or,
   in the case of an applicant, to which the complainant applied.

   106.4. The Director may dismiss or reject a complaint of discrimination for
   the following reasons:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The complaint is not timely filed;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The complainant does not state a claim for which relief can be granted under
   the Act;
   
   
   
   (c)	The allegations of the complaint fall outside the scope of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (d)	OHR does not have jurisdiction over the complainant or the respondent;
   
   
   
   (e)	The complainant fails to prosecute or respond to inquiries from the
   investigator or mediator regarding the complaint within a prescribed time
   limit;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The complaint is subject to dismissal pursuant to § 107 of this chapter.

   106.5. In the event of a rejection or dismissal of a complaint, the Director
   shall transmit the decision by letter to the complainant or his or her
   representative.  The letter shall contain notice of the complainant’s right
   to request reconsideration or the reopening of the case by the Director
   pursuant to § 114.4.

   106.6. In order to resolve each complaint expeditiously, the complainant and
   the District government shall proceed with the complaint without undue delay
   so that the complaint is resolved, insofar as practicable, within two hundred
   ten (210) days after its receipt by the Director.

   106.7. The complainant shall be responsible for prosecuting the complaint
   without undue delay so as to permit resolution of the complaint within the
   prescribed time limits.

   106.8. The complainant shall provide reasonable assistance and all pertinent
   information to OHR staff in processing the complaint.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	The Director may dismiss a complaint pursuant to § 106.4(d) or, in his or
   her discretion, adjudicate the complaint on the basis of the existing record,
   if sufficient information for that purpose is available.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	If OHR determines that a complainant is filing what are determined to be
   frivolous complaints, which may include filing an unreasonable number of
   complaints during a given time period, it may resolve the complaint in
   accordance with OHR Intake Guidelines which may include an expedited review of
   the allegations, review of the previous complaints against the respondent by
   this complainant, and other investigative techniques to determine the
   legitimacy of the complaint.

   106.11. Officers and employees of District government agencies in which a
   complaint arises under this chapter shall not cause hardship, delay, or
   interference with the efforts of the EEO Counselor, the complainant or the
   complainant’s representative, OHR staff members, or the Hearing Examiner, in
   their efforts and activities to process the complaint to a resolution.

   106.12. All District agencies shall make every effort to make available as
   witnesses those employees whose testimony is determined to be necessary by the
   investigator or Hearing Examiner.

   106.13. A complaint may be amended by the complainant at any time prior to the
   issuance of a Letter of Determination (LOD); provided, that if the
   investigation is completed and it is being reviewed for legal sufficiency, OHR
   may direct that the Complainant file a new Charge of Discrimination.

   106.14. An amendment shall be in writing and verified, and shall be submitted
   by the complainant or the complainant’s representative to the Director.

   106.15. When an amendment is filed, the Director shall serve a copy of the
   amendment upon the respondent within five (5) work days of the amendment.
   
   
   
   106.16       The respondent shall, within five (5) work days after service of
   the amendment, file an answer to the amendment.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 31 DCR 56, 64-65(January 6, 1984); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 6569, 6572-73 (December
   13,1996); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 9162, 9170-9172
   (October 1, 2010).
