                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT OF HEARINGS BY HEARING EXAMINERS (§ 4-116)

116.1. The Director or the assigned Hearing Examiner shall notify all
   necessary parties in writing that a hearing will be held.

   116.2. Hearings shall be held by a qualified Hearing Examiner, who shall not
   be an employee of the agency in which the complaint arose, and who shall not
   have investigated the complaint or taken or reviewed an action giving rise to
   the complaint being heard.

   116.3. The Director shall select a Hearing Examiner qualified to conduct a
   hearing on a discrimination complaint either from among impartial employees,
   including OHR employees, or from outside contractors of the District
   government.

   116.4. In addition to any other power specified in this chapter, a Hearing
   Examiner shall have the power to do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Hold a hearing on the issue of the probable cause finding;
   
   
   
   (b)	Hold prehearing conferences to narrow the issues of the complaint, provide
   notice and information of the hearing procedure, and to take other actions
   deemed necessary to expedite the hearing;
   
   
   
   (c)	Administer oaths and affirmations;
   
   
   
   (d)	Examine and crossexamine witnesses;
   
   
   
   (e)	Request the issuance of subpoenas authorized under this chapter;
   
   
   
   (f)	Rule upon offers of proof and receive evidence;
   
   
   
   (g)	Regulate the course and conduct of the hearing, including the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Continuing the hearings to a later date or different place by announcement
   at the hearings or other appropriate notice;
   
   
   
   (2)	Taking official notice of any material fact;
   
   
   
   (3)	Ruling upon the admissibility of evidence and testimony;
   
   
   
   (4)	Determining whether the hearing will be open to the public; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Taking appropriate measures to assure that there shall be no interference
   with the orderly conduct of the hearing; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Prepare and deliver to the Director a Hearing Examiner’s report, which
   shall include a brief and concise statement of the history of the subject
   matter of the hearing, findings of fact, conclusions of law, analysis, and a
   recommendation or proposed order.
   
   
   
   (i) 	If either party fails to respond to the Hearing Examiner’s requests for
   information or hearing, the Hearing Examiner shall request that the Director
   issue an Order;
   
   
   
   (j)	If either party fails to respond to the Order of the Director without
   reasonable excuse, the Director may issue a determination against the
   non-responsive party.

   116.5. The Director shall transmit the complaint file to the Hearing Examiner.

   116.6. The Hearing Examiner shall review the complaint file to determine
   whether further investigation is needed before scheduling the hearing.

   116.7. If the Hearing Examiner determines that further investigation is
   needed, the Hearing Examiner shall either return the complaint file to the
   Director for further investigation or arrange with the Director for the
   appearance of witnesses necessary to supply the needed information at the
   hearing.

   116.8. The Hearing Examiner shall schedule the hearing for a convenient time
   and place.

   116.9. The Director shall provide the Hearing Examiner adequate space,
   
   appurtenances, and services necessary for the hearing.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 31 DCR 56, 73 (January 6, 1984); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 6569, 6575-76 (December 13,
   1996); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 9162, 9178-9179
   (October 1, 2010).
