                                  DC REGULATIONS

REMEDIAL ACTION[COLON] APPLICANTS FOR EMPLOYMENT (§ 4-125)

125.1. When the Director finds that an applicant for employment has been
   discriminated against and, except for that discrimination, would have been
   hired, the agency involved shall offer the applicant employment of the type
   and grade denied at the first opportunity that the employment becomes
   available.

   125.2. The agency’s offer of employment shall be made in writing.

   125.3. The individual shall have fifteen (15) days from receipt of the offer
   within which to accept or decline the offer.

   125.4. Failure to notify the agency of a decision to accept employment within
   the fifteen (15) day period shall be considered a refusal of the offer, unless
   the individual can show that circumstances beyond his or her control prevented
   a timely response.

   125.5. If the offer is accepted, the appointment shall be retroactive to the
   date the applicant would have been hired, and backpay may be awarded for the
   retroactive period, but not to exceed two (2) years prior to the date the
   complaint was filed, and subject to any appropriate deductions required by law
   or regulation.  During the period of retroactivity, the complainant shall be
   deemed to have performed services for all purposes, except for meeting service
   requirements for completion of a probationary or trial period.

   125.6. If the offer is declined, the respondent agency shall award the
   complainant backpay subject to the limitations of § 119.5 and shall notify
   the complainant in its offer, of his or her right to this award in the event
   the offer is declined.

   125.7. When the Director finds that discrimination existed at the time the
   applicant was considered for employment, but does not find that the individual
   is the one who would have been hired except for discrimination, the agency
   shall consider the individual for any existing vacancy of the type and grade
   for which he or she had been considered initially and for which he or she is
   qualified before consideration is given to other candidates.

   125.8. If the individual is not selected, the agency shall record the reasons
   for nonselection.

   125.9. If no vacancy exists, the agency shall give the applicant priority
   consideration for the next vacancy for which he or she is qualified.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   		Source: Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 9162, 9185-9186 (October 1,
   2010).
