                                  DC REGULATIONS

WATCHERS (§ 3-1010)

1010.1. Two (2) persons representing the proposer(s) and two (2) persons
   representing any political committee or committees registered with the Office
   of Campaign Finance and organized in opposition to a proposed initiative or
   referendum measure may be present during the counting and validation
   procedures and shall be deemed watchers.

   1010.2. To secure the presence of watchers, the proposer, or any committee
   registered in opposition, shall file a petition for credentials for watchers,
   within three (3) days from the date the initiative or referendum petition is
   submitted for filing.

   1010.3. Each petition for credentials shall be on a form furnished by the
   Board and shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address, telephone number, and signature of the proposer(s) or
   the committee(s), together with the title of the proposed measure and its
   serial number;
   
   
   
   (b)	The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the persons authorized to
   represent the proposer(s) or the committee(s) and receive the badges from the
   Board; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A certificate that each proposed watcher shall conform to the regulations
   of the Board concerning watchers and the conduct of the counting and
   validation process.

   1010.4. The Board shall issue a badge for each authorized watcher, with space
   for the watcher’s name, the serial number of the measure, and the name of
   the proposer(s) or political committee(s) represented by the watcher.

   1010.5. Badges shall be worn by the authorized watcher at all times when
   observing the counting and validation process.

   1010.6. An authorized alternate watcher may, in the discretion of the
   proposer(s) or the political committee(s), be substituted for a watcher at any
   time during the counting and validation process; provided, that notice is
   first given to the designated representative of the Board who is present.

   1010.7. No watcher shall at any time during the counting and validation
   process do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Touch any official record of the Board; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Interfere with the progress of the counting and validation process or
   obstruct in any way the process.

   1010.8. If a watcher has any questions or claims any discrepancy, inaccuracy,
   or error in the conduct of the procedures, he or she shall direct his or her
   question or complaint to the Board designee in charge.

   1010.9. Any watcher who, in the judgment of the Board or its designated
   representative, has failed to comply with any of the rules in this section may
   be requested to leave the area where the verification process is being
   conducted, and the watcher’s credentials shall be deemed canceled. An
   authorized alternate watcher may be substituted.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 D.C. Reg. 103, 116-17 (January 12,
   1996).
