                                  DC REGULATIONS

PETITION FORMAT AND APPROVAL (§ 3-1003)

1003.1. The Board shall prepare and provide to the proposer at a public
   meeting an original petition form which the proposer shall formally adopt as
   his or her own form.

   1003.2. Each petition sheet shall be printed on white paper of good writing
   quality of the same size as the original petition form approved by the Board
   and shall be double sided.

   1003.3. The proponent shall reproduce, in accordance with § 1003.2, at his or
   her own expense, copies of the original petition form approved by the Board
   for use in circulating the petition.

   1003.4. No petition pages may be circulated prior to the Board’s approval of
   the original petition form.

   1003.5. Each petition sheet shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Numbered lines for twenty (20) names, designed so that each signer may
   personally affix the date signed and his or her signature, printed name,
   residence address (giving street and number) and election ward;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement requesting that the Board hold an election on the initiative
   or referendum measure contained in the petition, stating the measure’s
   serial number and short title;
   
   
   
   (c)	The text of the official summary and short title of the measure printed on
   the front of the petition sheet;
   
   
   
   (d)	A warning statement declaring that only duly registered qualified electors
   of the District of Columbia may sign the petition;
   
   
   
   (e)	Instructions advising signatories of the proper method of signing the
   petition as follows: EVERY PETITIONER MUST SIGN HIS OR HER OWN NAME. UNDER NO
   CIRCUMSTANCES IS ANY PERSON PERMITTED TO SIGN ANOTHER PERSON’S NAME. PRINT
   YOUR NAME AND RESIDENCE ADDRESS IN FULL.
   
   
   
   (f)	The words &#8220;PAID FOR BY&#8221; followed by the name and address of
   the payer or the committee or other person, and its treasurer on whose behalf
   the material appears, in the right hand corner of the front page.

   1003.6. The back page of each petition sheet shall bear an affidavit, to be
   signed by the person circulating the sheet and made under penalties of
   perjury, which contains the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The printed name of the circulator;
   
   
   
   (b)	The residence address of the circulator, including the street number;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement that the circulator of the petition sheet was in the presence
   of each signatory when the petition was signed;
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement that, according to the best information available to the
   circulator, each signature is the signature of the person whose name it
   purports to be;
   
   
   
   (e)	A statement that the circulator of the initiative or referendum petition
   sheet meets the petition circulator requirements set forth in § 1005.1;
   
   
   
   (f)	The dates between which the signatures to the petition were obtained;
   
   
   
   (g)	A statement that the proposer of the initiative or referendum informed the
   circulator of the petition sheet of the law set forth in D.C. Official Code §
   1-1001.14 (2011 Repl.);
   
   
   
   (h)	A statement that the circulator has not tendered any form of compensation
   to anyone as consideration for his or her signature;
   
   
   
   (i)	A statement that the circulator has not made any false statements to the
   Board of Elections regarding the initiative or referendum;
   
   
   
   (j)	A statement that the circulator has not made any false statements
   regarding the initiative or referendum to anyone who signed the petition.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 D.C. Reg. 103, 107 (January 12,
   1996); amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 D.C. Reg. 6977 (August 27,
   1999); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 5582 (April 12,
   2013).
