                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIAL EXCEPTION REQUIREMENTS (HS) (§ 11-1325)

1325.1. The buildings, structures, and uses listed in § 1320.4 and exceptions
   from the requirements of the H Street Overlay District shall be permitted as a
   special exception if approved by the Board of Zoning Adjustment after public
   hearing, based on § 3104, provided the following criteria and the
   requirements of § 1304 are met:
   
   
   
   (a)	The project is consistent with the design intent of the design
   requirements of § 1324 and the design guidelines of the H Street N.E.
   Strategic Development Plan;
   
   
   
   (b)	The architectural design of the project shall enhance the urban design
   features of the immediate vicinity in which it is located; and, if a historic
   district or historic landmark is involved, the Office of Planning report to
   the Board shall include review by the State Historic Preservation Officer and
   a status of the project&#8217;s review by the Historic Preservation Review
   Board;
   
   
   
   (c)	Vehicular access and egress shall be located and designed so as to
   encourage safe and efficient pedestrian movement, minimize conflict with
   principal pedestrian ways, function efficiently, and create no dangerous or
   otherwise objectionable traffic conditions;
   
   
   
   (d)	Parking and traffic conditions associated with the operation of a proposed
   use shall not adversely affect adjacent or nearby residences;
   
   
   
   (e)	Noise associated with the operation of a proposed use shall not adversely
   affect adjacent or nearby residences; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The size, type, scale, and location of signs shall be compatible with the
   surrounding corridor and consistent the design guidelines of the H Street N.E.
   Strategic Development Plan.

   1325.2. An applicant may demonstrate compliance with § 1325.1(f) by
   demonstrating that the signage will be exclusively located on upper facades,
   awnings, and transom windows, constructed of durable materials, and
   sensitively designed; and will not affect more than twenty percent (20%) of
   display windows, consist of backlit box signs or neon product advertisements,
   block visibility into a store, or be overly obtrusive.

   1325.3. The Board may impose requirements pertaining to design, appearance,
   signs, massing, landscaping, and other such requirements as it deems necessary
   to protect neighboring property and to achieve the purposes of the H Street
   Overlay District.

   1325.4. Applicants shall demonstrate that projects requiring a special
   exception shall be consistent with the design intent of the design
   requirements, of § 1324 and the design guidelines of the H Street N.E.
   Strategic Development Plan.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 1708, 1714 (March 10, 2006).
