                                  DC REGULATIONS

REMEDIES (ยง 27-314)

314.1. If the Board determines, in sustaining a protest, that the
   solicitation, proposed award, or award does not comply with the applicable
   law, regulations, or terms and conditions of the solicitation, the Board may
   order the contracting agency to do one or more of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Terminate the contract for the convenience of the District government;
   
   
   
   (b)	Refrain from exercising any options under the contract;
   
   
   
   (c)	Recompete the contract;
   
   
   
   (d)	Issue a new solicitation;
   
   
   
   (e)	Award a contract consistent with the law and regulations; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Take such other action, except enjoining a contract award, as the Board
   may direct. If the Board determines that a contract is void pursuant to D.C.
   Code ยง 2-302.05(d)(1), the Board shall direct that the contract be canceled
   and cause a determination to be made pursuant to D.C. Code ยง 2-302.05(d)(2).

   314.2. In determining the appropriate remedy, the Board shall consider the
   circumstances surrounding the procurement, including, but not limited to, the
   following factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	Best interest of the District government;
   
   
   
   (b)	Seriousness of the procurement deficiency or violation;
   
   
   
   (c)	Existence of prejudice to other bidders or offerors;
   
   
   
   (d)	Maintaining the integrity of the procurement system; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Good faith of District government officials and other parties.

   314.3. In determining whether to terminate a contract, the Board shall
   consider the following additional factors:
   
   
   
   (a)	Extent of contract performance;
   
   
   
   (b)	Impact of termination on the contracting agency&#8217;s activities and
   mission;
   
   
   
   (c)	Costs to the government from termination; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Urgent need for the procurement.

   314.4. If the Board finds that the District government actions were arbitrary
   and capricious, the Board may, when requested, award the protester&#8217;s
   reasonable bid or proposal preparation costs and costs of pursuing the
   protest, but not legal fees.

   314.5. A motion for bid or proposal preparation costs and costs of pursuing
   the protest shall be submitted by the protester within twenty (20) days of
   receipt of the Board&#8217;s decision.

   314.6. The motion shall be accompanied by sufficient documentation supporting
   the requested costs and an appropriate proposed order for the Board.

   314.7. The contracting agency may, within fifteen (15) days after its receipt
   of the protester&#8217;s motion, file a written response to the motion.

   314.8. At the request of the protester or the District government or on its
   own initiative, the Board may conduct a hearing on the motion before issuing a
   ruling.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   APPENDIX
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   GOVERNMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CONTRACT APPEALS BOARD
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   APPEAL/PROTEST OF:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   )
   
   
   
   
   
   )
   
   
   
   
   
   )
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   CAB No.           
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Solicitation/Contract No.:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   )
   
   
   
   
   
   )
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Agency:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   )
