                                  DC REGULATIONS

FILING THE PROTEST WITH THE BOARD; TIME LIMITATIONS (ยง 27-302)

302.1. Unless filed electronically, the protester shall file an original and
   two (2) paper copies of its protest, including all attachments, with the Board
   by hand delivery, mail, or commercial carrier within the time limitations
   established by law and set forth below in Rule 302.2. The protester shall also
   serve a copy of the protest, including all attachments, on the contracting
   agency and, if filed on paper, shall furnish the Board with proof of service.

   302.2. Time Limitations. Filing occurs when the protest is received on paper
   by the Board or electronically by the Board&#8217;s electronic filing agent.
   The following paragraphs specify the time limitations associated with the
   filing of a protest.
   
   
   
   (a)	A protest based upon alleged improprieties in a solicitation which are
   apparent prior to bid opening or the time set for receipt of initial proposals
   shall be filed with the Board prior to bid opening or the time set for receipt
   of initial proposals. In procurements where proposals are requested, alleged
   improprieties which do not exist in the initial solicitation, but which are
   subsequently incorporated into this solicitation, must be protested not later
   than the next closing time for receipt of proposals following the
   incorporation.
   
   
   
   (b)	Protests other than those covered in paragraph (a) shall be filed with the
   Board not later than ten (10) business days after the basis of the protest is
   known or should have been known, whichever is earlier.

   302.3. A protest concerning a procurement conducted by an agency exempt from
   the Procurement Practices Act, which has entered into an agreement with the
   Board under Rule 101.8 to resolve protests, shall be filed with the Board
   within the time prescribed by the agency&#8217;s regulations.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
