                                  DC REGULATIONS

AGENCY REPORT (ยง 27-305)

305.1. As expeditiously as possible but no later than twenty (20) days of
   receipt of the Board acknowledgment specified in Rule 301.2, the contracting
   agency shall file an Agency Report with the Board which shall include, where
   relevant:
   
   
   
   (a)	The procurement solicitation;
   
   
   
   (b)	The bid or proposal submitted by the protester;
   
   
   
   (c)	The bid or proposal which is being considered for award, or which has
   resulted in an award, if any;
   
   
   
   (d)	Bid tabulation sheets or proposal selection reports and evaluation
   reports, work papers, and scoring sheets;
   
   
   
   (e)	The contracting agency position and defense for each ground of the
   protest, including the facts, legal principles, and precedents supporting its
   position; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Any other documents and exhibits that are relevant to the protest.

   305.2. The contracting agency shall simultaneously provide a copy of the
   Agency Report to the protester and all interested parties.

   305.3. Copies of the Agency Report provided under Rule 305.2 shall include all
   relevant documents including documents containing protected information.
   Copies of the Agency Report served on the protester or an intervenor shall be
   redacted to exclude protected information unless such parties have been
   admitted under a protective order.

   305.4. The Board may require parties to supplement the Agency Report by filing
   other documents and tangible things.

   305.5. All exhibits in the Agency Report shall be considered, without further
   action by the parties, a part of the record upon which the Board will render
   its decision. However, a party may object, for reasons stated, to
   consideration of a particular document reasonably in advance of closing the
   record. If an objection is made, the Board shall remove the documents from the
   Agency Report and permit the party offering the document to move its admission
   as evidence.

   305.6. Documents in the Agency Report may be originals or legible paper or
   electronic facsimiles or authenticated copies, and shall be arranged in
   chronological order where practicable, numbered sequentially, tabbed, and
   indexed to identify the contents of the file.

   305.7. Original copies of documents may be withdrawn from the Agency Report,
   with the Board&#8217;s consent, if an acceptable copy is substituted.

   305.8. The contracting agency may request, by motion, an extension of the
   deadline for filing the Agency Report and shall supply an explanation of why
   an extension is needed. Extensions are to be considered exceptional and will
   be granted only for good cause.

   305.9. When a contracting agency fails to submit an Agency Report, the Board
   may treat the factual allegations contained in the protest as conceded. When a
   contracting agency fails to challenge or rebut a factual allegation in the
   protest, the Board may treat the factual allegation as conceded.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
