                                  DC REGULATIONS

AUTOMATIC STAY; DIRECTOR DETERMINATION TO PROCEED (ยง 27-304)

304.1. Automatic Stay Procedures. Except as provided by law, no contract may
   be awarded in any procurement after the contracting officer has received the
   notice of protest pursuant to Rule 303.2 and while the protest is pending.

   304.2. If an award has already been made but the contracting officer receives
   the notice of protest within 11 business days after the date of award, the
   contracting officer shall immediately direct the awardee to cease performance
   under the contract and to suspend any related activities that may result in
   additional obligations being incurred by the District under that contract.
   Except as provided by law, performance and related activities suspended
   pursuant to law may not be resumed while the protest is pending.

   304.3. Director Determination to Proceed with Performance. Performance under a
   protested procurement may proceed, or award may be made, while a protest is
   pending only if the Director makes a written determination, supported by
   substantial evidence, that urgent and compelling circumstances that
   significantly affect interests of the District will not permit waiting for the
   decision of the Board concerning the protest. A copy of the determination
   shall be provided within one business day of issuance to both the Board and
   the protester.

   304.4. Protester Challenge. If the protester wishes to challenge a
   determination made by the Director pursuant to Rule 304.3, the protester may
   do so by filing a written motion with the Board (with same day service on the
   District) within five (5) business days of receipt of a copy of the
   Director&#8217;s determination. The District shall file a written response
   with the Board (with same day service on the protester) within two (2)
   business days of receipt of the protester&#8217;s motion. The protester may
   file a reply within one (1) business day of receipt of the District&#8217;s
   response.

   304.5. Board Decision on Protester Challenge. The Board shall issue a decision
   on the protester&#8217;s motion within ten (10) business days after the date
   the written motion is filed by the protester.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
