                                  DC REGULATIONS

BOARD DOCKETING OF PROTESTS (ยง 27-303)

303.1. Docketing of Protests. When a protest has been accepted for filing by
   the Board, it shall be docketed immediately.
   
   
   
   (a)	The Board shall prepare an acknowledgment that the protest has been
   docketed, indicating the name of the protest, the solicitation at issue, the
   Board&#8217;s protest docket number, and the District of Columbia Register
   citation to the current rules of the Board. In addition, the Board shall
   advise the protester of the identity of the persons furnished with the
   acknowledgment.
   
   
   
   (b)	Within one (1) business day of receipt of the protest filing, the Board
   shall send a copy of the acknowledgment to:
   
   
   
   (1)	The contracting officer;
   
   
   
   (2)	The Attorney General or the counsel for an independent agency; and
   
   
   
   (3)	The protester.
   
   
   
   (c)	The parties also will be notified that the acknowledgment is available at
   the Board for pick up.

   303.2. Telephonic Notice to the Agency. The Board shall notify the contracting
   agency by telephone, also within one (1) business day of receipt of the
   protest, that the protest has been filed. The Board&#8217;s acknowledgment of
   protest filing shall serve as written confirmation of the Board&#8217;s
   telephonic notice.

   303.3. The acknowledgment shall notify the contracting officer to file the
   Agency Report as prescribed in Rule 305.

   303.4. The contracting agency shall immediately give notice of the protest to:
   
   
   
   (a)	In the case of a protest alleging solicitation improprieties, prospective
   bidders or offerors who can reasonably be ascertained;
   
   
   
   (b)	In protests other than those covered in paragraph (a), (i) if a contract
   has not been awarded, to all bidders or offerors who appear to have a
   reasonable prospect of receiving an award; (ii) if a contract has been
   awarded, to the contract awardee and all other bidders or offerors who appear
   to have a reasonable prospect of receiving an award if the protest is
   sustained.
   
   
   
   The contracting agency shall furnish copies of the protest submissions to
   those parties, except where disclosure of the information is prohibited by
   law, with instructions to communicate further directly with the Board. All
   parties shall furnish copies of all protest communications to the contracting
   agency and to other participating parties.

   303.5. All protest communications shall be sent by means reasonably calculated
   to effect timely delivery.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2078 (March 8, 2002).
