                                  DC REGULATIONS

ULTRA-HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURES (ยง 24-2601)

2601.1. The carrier shall complete a permit application for an Ultra-Hazardous
   Materials Transport Permit provided by the Public Space Management
   Administration.

   2601.2. In addition to such other information as the Public Space Management
   Administration may request, the permit application for an Ultra-Hazardous
   Materials Transport Permit shall include the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Type of ultra-hazardous material to be moved within the Capitol Exclusion
   Zone;
   
   
   
   (b)	Whether a rail car or motor vehicle will move the ultra-hazardous material
   within the Capitol Exclusion Zone;
   
   
   
   (c)	Route of the rail car or motor vehicle moving the ultra-hazardous
   material, including points of origination and termination;
   
   
   
   (d)	Statement and supporting documentation explaining why there is no
   practical alternative route that can be used to move the ultra- hazardous
   material;
   
   
   
   (e)	Emergency contact information; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Statement establishing that by signing the application, the carrier
   attests that the information provided on the application is true and complete.

   2601.3. The carrier shall submit the completed Ultra-Hazardous Materials
   Transport Permit application to the Public Space Management Administration.

   2601.4. After review and analysis of the information provided on the completed
   Ultra-Hazardous Materials Transport Permit application and upon receipt of the
   appropriate permit fee, the Director may:
   
   
   
   (a)	Issue a permit upon a demonstration that there is no practical alternative
   route; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Deny the permit.

   2601.5. If the Director denies the permit application, the carrier may appeal
   the Director&#8217;s denial by filing a request for a hearing with the Office
   of Administrative Hearings within fifteen (15) days after the Director&#8217;s
   denial was issued.

   2601.6. If the Ultra-Hazardous Materials Transport Permit is denied by the
   Director, the carrier may request that the Director reconsider the permit
   application. A request for reconsideration shall not act to stay the time for
   filing a request for hearing under ยง 2601.5.

   2601.7. The Ultra-Hazardous Materials Transport Permit shall expire:
   
   
   
   (a)	Single-trip permit: Seven (7) days after the designated date of movement
   of the ultra-hazardous material;
   
   
   
   (b)	Annual permit: Three hundred sixty-five (365) days after the date of
   issuance.

   2601.8. The Ultra-Hazardous Materials Transport Permit fee shall be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Single-trip permit: Three hundred dollars ($300);
   
   
   
   (b)	Annual permit: One thousand dollars ($1,000).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking Published at 52 DCR 10700 (December 9, 2005).
