                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMMITTEES (§ 19-106)

106.1 	The Board may, by resolution passed by a majority of the Members of the
   Board, designate one or more committees including standing committees; each
   such committee shall consist only of Members of the Board, which Members shall
   be appointed by the Chairperson of the Board.
   
   
   
   106.2 	The Board may remove any member of any committee at any time, with or
   without cause, and may designate one or more Members of the Board as alternate
   members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member of
   such committee at any meeting of the committee.

   106.3. In the event that the Chairperson has not designated a committee
   chairperson, the committee shall appoint one of its own members as
   chairperson, who shall preside at all meetings and may also appoint a
   secretary (who need not be a member of the committee) who shall keep its
   records and who shall hold office at the pleasure of the committee.

   106.4. Any such committee, to the extent permitted by the Act, shall have and
   may exercise such powers and authority to conduct investigations or recommend
   actions to the Board as shall be specified by resolution of the Board;
   provided that the principal functions of any such committees shall be to
   function as a liaison between the Board and the Authority’s staff,
   consultants or other third parties and to gather information for purposes of
   aiding the Board in its decision making.
   
   
   
   106.5 	No committee shall have power or authority to:
   
   
   
   (a)	fill vacancies on any committee;
   
   (b) 	adopt, amend, or repeal these bylaws;
   
   (c) 	sell, exchange, assign, convey, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
   any of the Authority’s assets; or
   
   (d) 	take any action that is within the exclusive authority of the Board.
   
   
   
   106.6 	Regular meetings of such committees may be held without notice of the
   time, place or purposes thereof and shall be held at such times and places as
   the committee may from time to time determine.
   
   
   
   106.7 	Special meetings of such committees may be held upon notice of the
   time, place and purposes thereof. Until otherwise ordered by the committee,
   special meetings shall be held at any time and place at the call of the
   Chairperson of the Board or chairperson of such committee.
   
   
   
   106.8 	At any regular or special meeting any such committee may exercise any
   or all of its powers, and any business which shall come before any regular or
   special meeting may be transacted there, provided a majority of the committee
   is present; but in every case the affirmative vote of a majority of all of the
   members of the committee shall be necessary to take any action.
   
   
   
   106.9 	Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its proceedings and
   distribute a copy thereof to each of the Members of the Board and the
   Secretary of the Authority after each committee meeting.
   
   
   
   106.10 	Before the Board or any of its committees acts upon any request for
   the use of excess funds totaling more than two hundred fifty thousand dollars
   ($250,000) from the Washington Convention Center Marketing Fund, the Board
   shall afford the Washington Convention and Tourism Corporation an opportunity
   to review and comment upon the request.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 3816, 3818-20 (June 12, 1998); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 4571 (May 17, 2002); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 10919, 10922 (November 19,
   2010); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 8953 (June 14,
   2013).
