                                  DC REGULATIONS

LICENSE BY EXAMINATION (§ 17-6504)

6504.1. To qualify for a license by examination, an applicant shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Meet the education requirements set forth under § 6502.1(a), or if the
   applicant was educated in a foreign country meet the requirements set forth
   under § 6503;
   
   
   
   (b)	Meet the training requirements set forth under § 6502.1(b);
   
   
   
   (c)	Receive a passing score on each test that forms a part of the NAPLEX, or
   its successor, which shall be the passing score as determined by the NABP;
   
   
   
   (d)	Receive a passing score on each test that forms a part of the MPJE for the
   District of Columbia, or its successor, which shall be the passing score as
   determined by the NABP;
   
   
   
   (e)	Be at least 18 years of age; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Have not been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or bearing
   directly on the fitness of the applicant to be licensed.

   6504.2. An applicant for licensure by examination, who has previously
   successfully completed the NAPLEX and/or MPJE examinations, but has not
   actively engaged in the practice of pharmacy in the United States or was not
   actively licensed as a pharmacist in the United States for more than five (5)
   years prior to the date of the application, in addition to the other
   requirements of this section, shall be required to do the following in order
   to qualify for licensure under this section:
   
   
   
   (a)	Retake the NAPLEX and MPJE examinations; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Register as a Pharmacy Intern and complete an additional pharmacy
   internship consisting of seven hundred and fifty (750) hours of independent
   pre-licensure professional practice under the supervision of a licensed
   pharmacist who uses the standards for pre-licensure professional practice
   described in § 6502 of this chapter.

   6504.3. To apply for a license by examination, an applicant shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit a completed application to the Board on the required forms and
   include:
   
   
   
   (1)	The applicant&#8217;s social security number on the application. If the
   applicant does not have a social security number, the applicant shall:
   
   
   
   (i)	Submit with the application a sworn affidavit, under penalty of perjury,
   stating that he or she does not have a social security number; and
   
   
   
   (ii)	Submit proof acceptable to the Board that he or she is legally authorized
   to be in the United States, such as a Certificate of Citizenship or
   Naturalization, Resident Alien Card, a valid foreign passport with a visa; or
   a work permit card from the Department of Homeland Security (I-766 or I-688B).
   
   
   
   (2)	Two (2) recent passport-type photographs of the applicant&#8217;s face
   measuring two inches by two inches (2&#8243; x 2&#8243;), which clearly expose
   the area from the top of the forehead to the bottom of the chin; and
   
   
   
   (3)	One (1) clear photocopy of a U.S. government-issued photo ID, such as a
   driver&#8217;s license, as proof of identity.
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit official transcripts mailed directly to the Board of Pharmacy from
   each educational institution in a sealed envelope, which shall verify that the
   applicant has successfully completed an educational program in the practice of
   pharmacy meeting the requirements set forth in § 6502.1(a) of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (c)	Applicants educated in foreign countries must submit a Foreign Pharmacy
   Graduate Examination Committee (FPGEC) Certification in lieu of an official
   transcript;
   
   
   
   (d)	Submit proof acceptable to the Board that the applicant has successfully
   completed a pharmacy internship meeting the training requirements set forth in
   § 6502.1(b) of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (e)	Pay all required fees; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Successfully complete the NAPLEX and MPJE examinations after receiving
   Board approval to take the examinations and arrange to have the score results
   sent directly to the Board.

   6504.4. An applicant under this section shall successfully complete the NAPLEX
   and MPJE examinations within one (1) year from the date the Board approves the
   applicant to take the examinations.

   6504.5. If an applicant under this section fails to successfully complete the
   NAPLEX and MPJE examinations within one (1) year from the date of approval to
   take the exam, his or her application shall be considered abandoned and closed
   by the Board. The applicant shall thereafter be required to reapply, comply
   with the current requirements for licensure, and pay the required fees.

   6504.6. If an applicant under this section fails to successfully complete the
   NAPLEX and MPJE examinations within one (1) year from the date of approval to
   take the exam, then upon expiration of his or her supervised practice letter,
   the applicant shall immediately cease from practicing. Thereafter the
   applicant may perform only the duties of a pharmacy technician until the
   applicant receives a pharmacist license.

   6504.7. A supervised practice letter issued under this section is not
   renewable and shall expire one (1) year from the date of issuance.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6243, 6246 (September 1, 1989);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 2747, 2753 (May 4, 1990); 
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 8091 (May 4, 1994); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 4330 (April 18, 2008).
