                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS (ยง 17-6514)

6514.1. The Board may, in its discretion, approve continuing education
   programs that contribute to the growth of an applicant in professional
   competence in the practice of pharmacy and which meet the other requirements
   of this section.

   6514.2. The Board may approve continuing education programs that meet the
   requirements of ยง 6514.3 and provide instruction in one of the following
   subjects:
   
   
   
   (a)	Properties and actions of drugs and drug dosage forms;
   
   
   
   (b)	Etiology, characteristics, and therapeutics of the disease state;
   
   
   
   (c)	Pharmaceutical practice;
   
   
   
   (d)	Legal, psychological, and socio-economic aspects of health care delivery;
   or
   
   
   
   (e)	Principles, techniques, and theories of pharmacy management and
   administration.

   6514.3. To qualify for approval by the Board, a continuing education program
   shall be a lecture, conference, seminar, course of instruction, or workshop
   and be prepared, offered, or administered by one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Providers approved by the ACPE;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (sponsored or
   co-sponsored) and designated as an American Medical Association
   Physician&#8217;s Recognition Award Category 1 program by the sponsoring
   organization;
   
   
   
   (c)	A governmental unit;
   
   
   
   (d)	A health care facility; or
   
   
   
   (e)	An institution of higher learning recognized by an accrediting body
   approved by the Secretary of the United States Department of Education.

   6514.4. The Board may issue a list of approved continuing education programs.

   6514.5. An applicant shall have the burden of verifying whether a program is
   approved by the Board pursuant to this section prior to attending the program.

   6514.6. The Board may approve the following continuing education activities by
   an applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Serving as an instructor or speaker at a lecture, conference, seminar,
   workshop, course of instruction, or in-service training; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Publication of an article or book review in a professional journal or
   bulletin or publication of a book or chapter in a book.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 4330 (April 18, 2008).
