                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUPERVISED PRACTICE OF PHARMACY (ยง 17-6508)

6508.1. Only the following persons may practice pharmacy under supervision:
   
   
   
   (a)	An applicant for a pharmacist license whose initial application for
   licensure is pending before the Board and who has received a supervised
   practice letter from the Board, but shall be limited to the same scope of
   duties as a registered pharmacy intern;
   
   
   
   (b)	A licensee who is working under supervised practice pursuant to an Order
   of the Board;
   
   
   
   (c)	A pharmacy intern who is registered with the Board, subject to the
   limitations set forth under District of Columbia law and regulations; or
   
   
   
   (d)	An applicant who is required pursuant to this chapter to complete
   professional practice hours in order to obtain licensure, reinstatement of
   licensure, or reactivation of licensure.

   6508.2. A supervisor shall be responsible for ensuring that the individual(s)
   under his or her supervision is authorized to practice under supervision and
   may be subject to disciplinary action for supervising unlicensed or
   unauthorized personnel.

   6508.3. For purposes of this section, supervision shall mean that the
   supervisor is physically present in the pharmacy area and shall include
   personal observation where appropriate, evaluation, oversight, review, and
   correction of services provided by the supervisee.

   6508.4. A supervisor shall be fully responsible for supervised practice by a
   supervisee during the period of supervision, and is subject to disciplinary
   action for any violation of the Act or this chapter by the person being
   supervised.

   6508.5. A supervisee shall be subject to all applicable provisions of the Act
   and this chapter.

   6508.6. If the Board finds that a person practicing under supervision has
   violated the Act or this title, the Board may, in addition to any other
   disciplinary actions permitted by the Act, deny, revoke, suspend, or restrict
   the privilege of the supervisee to practice.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 4330 (April 18, 2008).
