                                  DC REGULATIONS

LICENSE BY SCORE TRANSFER (§ 17-6505)

6505.1. To qualify for a license by score transfer, an applicant shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Meet the education requirements set forth under § 6502.1(a), or if the
   applicant was educated in a foreign country meet the requirements set forth
   under § 6503;
   
   
   
   (b)	Meet the training requirements set forth under § 6502.1(b);
   
   
   
   (c)	Have received a passing score on each test that forms a part of the
   NAPLEX, or its successor, which shall be the passing score as determined by
   the NABP;
   
   
   
   (d)	Receive a passing score on each test that forms a part of the MPJE for the
   District of Columbia, or its successor, which shall be the passing score as
   determined by the NABP;
   
   
   
   (e)	Be at least 18 years of age;
   
   
   
   (f)	Have not been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or bearing
   directly on the fitness of the applicant to be licensed; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Have requested a score transfer to the District of Columbia at the time
   the applicant applied to take his or her initial NAPLEX examination.

   6505.2. To apply for a license by score transfer, an applicant shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit a completed application to the Board on the required forms and
   include:
   
   
   
   (1)	The applicant&#8217;s social security number on the application. If the
   applicant does not have a social security number, the applicant shall:
   
   
   
   (i)	Submit with the application a sworn affidavit, under penalty of perjury,
   stating that he or she does not have a social security number; and
   
   
   
   (ii)	Submit proof acceptable to the Board that he or she is legally authorized
   to be in the United States, such as a Certificate of Citizenship or
   Naturalization, Resident Alien Card, a valid foreign passport with a visa, or
   a work permit card from the Department of Homeland Security (I-766 or I-688B).
   or a valid foreign passport with a visa.
   
   
   
   (2)	Two (2) recent passport-type photographs of the applicant&#8217;s face
   measuring two inches by two inches (2&#8243; x 2&#8243;), which clearly expose
   the area from the top of the forehead to the bottom of the chin; and
   
   (3)	One (1) clear photocopy of a U.S. government-issued photo ID, such as a
   driver&#8217;s license, as proof of identity.
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit the NABP score transfer form with the application for licensure;
   
   
   
   (c)	Submit proof acceptable to the Board that the applicant has successfully
   completed a pharmacy internship meeting the training requirements set forth in
   § 6502.1(b) of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (d)	Pay all required fees; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Successfully complete the MPJE examination after receiving Board approval
   to take the examination and arrange to have the score result sent directly to
   the Board.

   6505.3. An applicant under this section shall successfully complete the MPJE
   examination within one (1) year from the date the Board approves the applicant
   to take the examination.

   6505.4. If an applicant under this section fails to successfully complete the
   MPJE examination within one (1) year from the date of approval to take the
   exam, his or her application shall be considered abandoned and closed by the
   Board. The applicant shall thereafter be required to reapply, comply with the
   current requirements for licensure, and pay the required fees.

   6505.5. If an applicant under this section fails to successfully complete the
   MPJE examination within one (1) year from the date of approval to take the
   exam, then upon expiration of his or her supervised practice letter, the
   applicant shall immediately cease from practicing. Thereafter the applicant
   may become registered as a registered pharmacy technician, if he or she meets
   the requirements for registration, and perform only the duties of a registered
   pharmacy technician until the applicant receives a pharmacist license.

   6505.6. A supervised practice letter issued under this section is not
   renewable and shall expire one (1) year from the date of issuance.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6243, 6246 (September 1, 1989);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 4330 (April 18, 2008).
