                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROJECT COORDINATING COMMITTEE (§ 15-2106)

2106.1. Once an application has been properly filed, the applicant may request
   the formation of a project coordinating committee. If the request is approved,
    the Committee shall consist of the following members:
   
   
   
   (a)	A chairperson, who shall be designated by the Commission;
   
   
   
   (b)	A representative of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (c)	A representative from the Office of the People&#8217;s Counsel, if a
   notice of intent to participate on the committee is filed within ten (10) days
   of the date of the filing of a request to form a project coordinating
   committee;
   
   
   
   (d)	A representative from each District of Columbia agency that has as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	Authority to issue a license, permit, or authorization before the
   construction or operation of the project; or
   
   
   
   (2)	A direct interest in the project.
   
   
   
   (e)	Pepco, if Pepco is not the applicant.
   
   
   
   (f)	A representative designated by the Executive Office of the Mayor; and
   
   
   
   (g)	A representative of any federal agency or independent system operator
   that, in the Commission&#8217;s view, has an interest in the project.

   2106.2. The committee shall develop a coordinated time schedule for the review
   of the application by each committee member&#8217;s agency or company and
   oversee the preparation of any environmental impact statement required by D.C.
   Code, 2001 Ed. §§ 8-109.01 to 8-109.11. Additionally, the committee shall
   provide the Commission with the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A list of proposed issues to be addressed in an application;
   
   
   
   (b)	A list of any proposed analyses or studies regarding the proposed
   construction;
   
   
   
   (c)	Recommendations concerning the timing, preparation, and submission of
   required materials;
   
   
   
   (d)	Recommendations concerning compliance with the requirements of each
   committee member&#8217;s agency; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Any other information that the committee believes would be relevant.

   2106.3. The committee is advisory in nature and shall not have authority to do
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Approve or disapprove an application;
   
   
   
   (b)	Approve or disapprove proposed studies of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (c)	Require or prohibit any action by a committee member; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Require or prohibit any expenditure by a committee member.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 8644 (September 3, 2004).
