                                  DC REGULATIONS

UNDERGROUND TRANSMISSION LINES IN EXCESS OF SIXTY-NINE THOUSAND VOLTS AND
SUBSTATIONS CONNECTED TO SUCH LINES (§ 15-2111)

2111.1. An electric corporation which plans to construct inside the District
   of Columbia an underground transmission line in excess of sixty-nine thousand
   (69,000) volts, or substation connected to such line, shall file formal notice
   with the Commission six (6) months prior to the construction. This formal
   notice shall include a discussion of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the principal place of business of the electric
   corporation;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name, title, and address of the person authorized to receive notices
   and communications with respect to the application;
   
   
   
   (c)	The location or locations where the public may inspect or obtain a copy of
   the application;
   
   
   
   (d)	A list of each District of Columbia, state, or federal government agency
   having authority to approve or disapprove the construction or operation of the
   project and containing the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A statement indicating whether the necessary approval from each agency has
   been obtained, with a copy of each approval or disapproval attached;
   
   
   
   (2)	A statement indicating the circumstances under which any necessary
   approval has not been obtained; and
   
   
   
   (3)	A statement indicating whether any waiver or variance has been requested,
   with a copy of each approval or disapproval attached.
   
   
   
   (e)	The proposed date construction is to be initiated;
   
   
   
   (f)	The need for the underground transmission line or substation;
   
   
   
   (g)	The type and voltage level(s) of the underground transmission line or
   substation;
   
   
   
   (h)	Property or property right acquired or to be acquired;
   
   
   
   (i)	Location of the proposed construction, including affected streets by name;
   
   
   
   (j)	Duration of the proposed construction;
   
   
   
   (k)	Impact of the proposed project on affected neighborhood and community; and
   
   
   
   (l)	Possible mitigating measures which could be employed to minimize impact
   upon the affected neighborhood or community.

   2111.2. Other provisions of this chapter shall not apply to underground
   substations and underground transmission lines.

   2111.3. All information required in § 2111.1 shall be served on the affected
   Advisory Neighborhood Commission(s) and the Office of the People&#8217;s
   Counsel on the same date it is filed with the Commission.

   2111.4. The Commission shall entertain petitions filed by any interested
   person within ninety (90) days of the date of a formal notice provided under
   § 2111.1 for the Commission to investigate the reasonableness, safety and
   need for the underground transmission line or substation.

   2111.5. If the Commission initiates an investigation, the electric corporation
   shall submit a detailed analysis of the information required in § 2111.1. The
   electric corporation shall also submit the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	An explanation of the need for and the cost-effectiveness of the project
   in meeting demand for service;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the effect of the project on system stability and
   reliability;
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of the consequences if the project is delayed or not
   approved;
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement regarding the probability that the consequences of §
   2111.5(c) will occur;
   
   
   
   (e)	A description of the applicant&#8217;s transmission planning criteria;
   
   
   
   (f)	A description of one-line diagrams regarding the power flows relied upon
   which determined the need for the proposed line;
   
   
   
   (g)	Engineering and construction features including the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Width, length, and total acreage of the right-of-way;
   
   
   
   (2)	Line voltage;
   
   
   
   (3)	Number of circuits;
   
   
   
   (4)	Number of circuits per structure;
   
   
   
   (5)	Structure type and dimensions;
   
   
   
   (6)	Conductor configuration and size;
   
   
   
   (7)	Nominal capacity (MVA);
   
   
   
   (8)	Nominal length of span between structures; and
   
   
   
   (9)	Description and dimensions of any related conduit.
   
   
   
   (h)	Location and identification of all portions or the right-of-way requiring
   construction within the one hundred (100) year floodplain of any stream;
   
   
   
   (i)	The description of each alternative route considered for the transmission
   line and alternative placement of a substation shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	An estimate of the capital and annual operating cost of each alternative
   route or placement; and
   
   
   
   (2)	A statement of the reason why each alternative route or placement was
   rejected.
   
   
   
   (j)	An analysis of potential impact upon the environment; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Engineering and construction features of the alternative underground
   transmission line including the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Width, length, and total acreage of the right-of-way,
   
   
   
   (2)	Line voltage;
   
   
   
   (3)	Number of circuits;
   
   
   
   (4)	Number of circuits per structure;
   
   
   
   (5)	Structure type and dimensions;
   
   
   
   (6)	Conductor configuration and size;
   
   
   
   (7)	Nominal capacity (MA);
   
   
   
   (8)	Nominal length of span between structures; and
   
   
   
   (9)	Description and dimensions of any related conduit.

   2111.6. If no petition is submitted prior to the proposed date of
   construction, the electric corporation may begin construction pursuant to
   permits its receives from other District of Columbia agencies such as the
   Department of Transportation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 8359, 8367 (December 3, 1993);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 8654 (September 3, 2004).
