                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FILING REQUIREMENTS (§ 15-2101)

2101.1. An application for approval of the construction of a generating
   facility, transmission line or substation covered under this Chapter shall
   include the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of the principal place of business of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name, title, and address of the person authorized to receive notices
   and communications with respect to the application;
   
   
   
   (c)	The location or locations where the public may inspect or obtain a copy of
   the application;
   
   
   
   (d)	A list of each District of Columbia, state, or federal government agency
   having authority to approve or disapprove the construction or operation of the
   project and containing the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A statement indicating whether the necessary approval from each agency has
   been obtained, with a copy of each approval or disapproval attached;
   
   
   
   (2)	A statement indicating the circumstances under which any necessary
   approval has not been obtained; and
   
   
   
   (3)	A statement indicating whether any waiver or variance has been requested,
   with a copy of each approval or disapproval attached.
   
   
   
   (e)	A general description of the generating station under § 2102, or the
   transmission line under § 2104, and the alternatives considered under §§
   2103 and 2104, respectively;
   
   
   
   (f)	The environmental information required under § 2108;
   
   
   
   (g)	A statement of the engineering justifications for the project;
   
   
   
   (h)	A statement of the safety considerations incorporated into the design,
   construction, and maintenance of the project;
   
   
   
   (i)	A statement of the socioeconomic impact of the project;
   
   
   
   (j)	A statement of contacts with community groups and the affected community;
   
   
   
   (k)	A statement that the applicant has complied with all applicable
   environmental and zoning laws; and
   
   
   
   (l)	A statement that the applicant has complied or will comply with the
   applicable PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM) tariff and requirements for the
   interconnection of new and expanded electric generating facilities within the
   PJM transmission system.

   2101.2. The original application shall be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Signed by a person having authority with respect to the application and
   having knowledge of the application; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Verified under oath.

   2101.3. All filings shall conform to the requirements of 15 DCMR Chapter 1.
   The Commission may, in its discretion, prescribe the form of the application.

   2101.4. In addition to filing the application with the Commission, the
   applicant shall simultaneously serve one copy on the following agencies:
   
   
   
   (a)	The District of Columbia Office of the People&#8217;s Counsel;
   
   
   
   (b)	The District of Columbia Department of Transportation;
   
   
   
   (c)	The District of Columbia Corporation Counsel;
   
   
   
   (d)	The Board of Zoning Adjustment;
   
   
   
   (e)	The Office of Intergovernmental Relations;
   
   
   
   (f)	The District of Columbia Energy Office;
   
   
   
   (g)	The Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments, if affected;
   
   
   
   (h)	The District of Columbia Zoning Commission;
   
   
   
   (i)	The District of Columbia Office of Property Management;
   
   
   
   (j)	The General Services Administration of the United States;
   
   
   
   (k)	The Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs;
   
   
   
   (l)	The Mayor&#8217;s Office of Policy and Education;
   
   
   
   (m)	The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency-D.C. Field Office;
   
   
   
   (n)	The National Capital Planning Commission
   
   
   
   (o)	The District of Columbia Department of Health; and
   
   
   
   (o)	PEPCO, if PEPCO is not the applicant.
   
   
   
   (p)	The Advisory Neighborhood Commission(s) in which the generating facility
   or transmission line will be located.

   2101.5. The applicant shall also serve a copy of the application on any other
   District of Columbia or federal agency that may be affected.

   2101.6. The Commission shall publish notice of the application on its website.

   2101.7. Failure to comply with the provisions of this section may result in
   the summary rejection of the application.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 8359, 8361 (December 3, 1993);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 8639 (September 3, 2004).
