                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE, REGISTRATION, RENEWAL, OR REINSTATEMENT (§ 17-4001)

4001.1. An applicant for an initial license or initial registration shall do
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit a completed application on the prescribed form;
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit for the purposes of printing on the license and publication on the
   Health Professional Licensing Administration website, two (2) recent
   passport-type color photographs measuring two inches by two inches
   (2&#8243;x2&#8243;) which clearly expose the area from the top of the forehead
   to the bottom of the chin;
   
   
   
   (c)	Pay the required fee(s);
   
   
   
   (d)	Submit all required supporting documents, with the completed application,
   including transcripts, character and employment references, certified or
   validated test scores, and, if applicable, certified proof of licensure in
   other jurisdictions, except as provided in § 4001.l(e); and
   
   
   
   (e)	Arrange for the required transcript, certification of graduation, test
   results, certification or proof of licensure to be sent directly to the board
   from the educational institution, testing service, professional association or
   government agency if the educational institution, testing service, association
   or agency will not provide these documents to the applicant.

   4001.2. Documents submitted with the completed application form pursuant to
   §4001.1(e) shall comply with the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Certificates of graduation, transcripts, test results and other official
   documents or certifications shall be submitted in an envelope sealed by the
   educational institution, testing service, professional association or other
   agency; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Letters of reference shall be submitted in envelopes which have been
   sealed and signed across the back flap of the envelope by the individual
   providing the reference.
   
   
   
   An applicant for a renewal or reinstatement of a license or registration shall
   do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit a completed application on the prescribed form;
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit for the purposes of printing on the license and publication on the
   Health Professional Licensing Administration website, two (2) recent
   passport-type color photographs measuring two inches by two inches
   (2&#8242;x2&#8243;) which clearly expose the area from the top of the forehead
   to the bottom of the chin. Such photographs shall be submitted for the renewal
   period commencing six (6) years from the date of the initial application or
   initial registration and thereafter, every six (6) years at the date of each
   subsequent renewal;
   
   
   
   (c)	Pay the required fees; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Submit all required supporting documents.

   4001.3. If a board or the Director determines that an application is not in
   compliance with §4001.1, the application shall be returned to the applicant,
   unless the board or the Director determines that the deficiency is minor. If
   the application is returned, the Director may, in his or her discretion,
   return the application fee to the applicant.

   4001.4. If a board or the Director determines that an application is not in
   compliance with §4001.1, but that the deficiency is minor, the Director shall
   send a notice of the deficiency to the applicant. Upon receipt of the notice,
   the applicant shall correct the deficiency within thirty (30) days or other
   period specified in the notice.

   4001.5. If the applicant fails to correct the deficiency within the required
   period, the application shall lapse and the applicant shall be required to
   submit a new application and pay the required fees to be considered for a
   license, certificate or registration.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 5859 (September 11, 1987); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 2747, 2748 (May 4, 1990); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 1671 (February 13, 2004); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 6351 (August 4, 2006).
