                                  DC REGULATIONS

REPORTING REQUIREMENTS (§ 17-4017)

4017.1. Any health care provider that employs a physician who is licensed in
   the District of Columbia shall report the following to the Board of Medicine
   within ten (10) days:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any disciplinary action that is taken against the physician by the health
   care provider; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The resignation of any physician that occurs while the physician is being
   investigated by the health care provider.

   4017.2. The Board of Medicine shall impose a penalty not to exceed two
   thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) on a physician who employs a
   physician and who fails to comply with the provisions of § 4017.1.

   4017.3. The Board of Medicine shall refer to the appropriate board or to the
   System Administrator for appropriate action non-physician health care
   providers who fail to report the discipline of physicians or the resignation
   of physicians while under investigation pursuant to § 4017.1, or who do so
   more than ten (10) days after the discipline is imposed or the resignation
   occurs.

   4017.4. Health care providers and medical facilities providing services in the
   District of Columbia shall submit biannual adverse event reports, on January 1
   and July 1 of each calendar year, to the System Administrator.

   4017.5. Each adverse event report shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be reported using the form approved by the Board of Medicine and available
   on the Department’s Health Regulation and Licensing Administration (HRLA)
   website;
   
   
   
   (b)	Ensure that the patient’s identity shall be de-identified and anonymous.
   For each adverse event reported, the reporting health care provider or medical
   facility shall use a numeric internal event identifier that will allow the
   System Administrator to subpoena health records and conduct investigations
   when needed; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Include a corrective action plan designed to prevent future similar
   adverse events.

   4017.6. Individual health care providers shall not be required to report
   adverse events occurring in medical facilities in which they have privileges
   or in which they are employed or provide contracted services unless they own
   the medical facility.

   4017.7. Medical facilities shall report adverse events to the System
   Administrator that occur in the facility or as a result of the service.

   4017.8. The appropriate board or the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH)
   shall adjudicate contested cases for failing to timely file adverse event
   reports.

   4017.9. The appropriate board, the System Administrator, or OAH shall impose a
   penalty of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or more than two
   thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for failure to submit a timely
   adverse event report.

   4017.10. The System Administrator shall be responsible for:
   
   
   
   (a)	Investigating adverse events as needed, including the subpoenaing of
   de-identified and anonymous primary health records;
   
   
   
   (b)	Collecting, organizing, and storing data on adverse events occurring in
   the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (c)	Tracking, assessing, and analyzing the incoming reports, findings, and
   corrective action plans;
   
   
   
   (d)	Identifying common adverse event patterns or trends;
   
   
   
   (e)	Recommending methods to reduce systematic adverse events;
   
   
   
   (f)	Providing technical assistance to health care providers and medical
   facilities on the development and implementation of patient safety plans to
   prevent adverse events;
   
   
   
   (g)	Disseminating information and advising health care providers and medical
   facilities in the District of Columbia on medical best practices;
   
   
   
   (h)	Monitoring national trends in best practices and disseminating relevant
   information and advice to health care providers and medical facilities in the
   District of Columbia; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Publishing an annual report that includes summary data of the number and
   types of adverse events for the prior calendar year by type of healthcare
   provider and medical facility, rates of change per type of event, other
   analyses, and recommendations to improve health care delivery in the District
   of Columbia.

   4017.11. Information provided to or obtained by the System Administrator
   pursuant to §§ 4017.4 and 4017.5, including the identity of persons
   providing such information and the reports or documents provided pursuant to
   § 4016.5, as well as files, records, findings, opinions, recommendations,
   evaluations, and reports of the System Administrator, shall be confidential
   and shall not be subject to disclosure pursuant to any other provision of law,
   and shall not be discoverable or admissible into evidence in any civil,
   criminal, or legislative proceeding. The information shall not be disclosed by
   any person under any circumstances, except as such data in the aggregate may
   be published in the annual report by the System Administrator.

   4017.12. No person providing information to the System Administrator shall be
   compelled to testify in any civil, criminal, or legislative proceeding with
   respect to any confidential matter contained in the information provided to
   the System Administrator, except the System Administrator may provide
   information in a criminal proceeding in which an individual is accused of a
   felony, if ordered to do so by a court pursuant to D.C. Official Code §
   7-161(e)(3).

   4017.13. Information gathered by the System Administrator on adverse events
   pursuant to this section shall not be used for purposes other than as set
   forth in § 4017.10.

   4017.14. Information submitted by health care providers and medical facilities
   pursuant to this section shall not be shared with the Healthcare Facilities
   Division (HFD) of the HRLA.

   4017.15. Medical facilities and individual health care providers are subject
   to investigation by the System Administrator, in addition to investigations
   pursuant to §§ 4017.5(b) and 4017.10(a), for a failure to file an adverse
   event report in a timely manner.

   4017.16. When information on an adverse event comes to the System
   Administrator by other means, such as by complaint or by regular processes
   performed by the HFD, such information may be used by HFD to initiate an
   investigation for purposes of regulatory compliance unrelated to the reporting
   of adverse events pursuant to D.C. Official Code § 7-161.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 6452 (June 13, 2008).
