                                  DC REGULATIONS

CHEATING ON AN EXAMINATION (ยง 17-4003)

4003.1. No person shall cheat or assist another in cheating on an examination
   required under this subtitle or the Act.

   4003.2. As used in this section, &#8220;cheating&#8221; includes, but is not
   limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Communication relating to the examination between applicants inside or
   outside of an examination room or copying another applicant&#8217;s answers
   while an examination is in progress;
   
   
   
   (b)	Communication relating to an examination with others outside of an
   examination room while the examination is in progress;
   
   
   
   (c)	Substitution by an applicant of another person to sit in an examination
   room in the applicant&#8217;s place; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Use of crib sheets, text books, or other materials not authorized by the
   board inside or outside an examination room while an examination is in
   progress.

   4003.3. If a person designated to proctor an examination suspects that an
   applicant is cheating or has cheated on the examination, the person shall do
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	If necessary, seat the applicant in a segregated location for the
   remainder of the examination;
   
   
   
   (b)	Keep a record of the applicant&#8217;s seat location and identification
   number, and the names and identification numbers of the applicants on either
   side of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (c)	Confiscate any materials or devices that are suspected of being used by
   the applicant to cheat on the examination;
   
   
   
   (d)	Permit the applicant to complete the examination; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Notify the testing service, the board, and the Director that the applicant
   is suspected of cheating and provide the board with a copy of the examination
   booklet and any evidence obtained by the person proctoring the examination.

   4003.4. If a board has cause to believe that an applicant has cheated or has
   failed to comply with an instruction of a proctor given pursuant of ยง4003.3,
   it may propose to deny a license, impose a civil fine, or take other actions
   pursuant to the procedures set forth in ยง4102 of chapter 41 of this title.

   4003.5. If a board determines, in accordance with the procedures set forth in
   chapter 41 of this title, that an applicant cheated on an examination, in
   addition to any other consequences under the Act or this subtitle, the
   applicant shall not be eligible to take another examination for a period of
   one (1) year from the date of the decision of the board, or other period
   established by the board in its order.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 5859, 5861 (September 11, 1987).
