                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 17-4099)

4099.1. As used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
   the meanings ascribed:
   
   
   
   Act &#8211; the District of Columbia Health Occupations Revisions Act of 1985,
   effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99; D.C. Official Code § 3-1201.01 et
   seq.).
   
   
   
   Adverse event &#8211; an event, occurrence, or situation involving the medical
   care of a patient by a health care provider that results in death or an
   unanticipated injury to the patient, as designated by the Board of Medicine
   and available on the Department’s Health Regulation and Licensing
   Administration website.
   
   
   
   Board &#8211; the Board of Acupuncture, Board of Chiropractic, Board of
   Dentistry, Board of Dietetics and Nutrition, Board of Marriage and Family
   Therapy, Board of Massage Therapy, Board of Medicine, Board of Nursing, Board
   of Nursing Home Administration, Board of Occupational Therapy, Board of
   Optometry, Board of Pharmacy, Board of Physical Therapy, Board of Podiatry,
   Board of Professional Counseling, Board of Psychology, Board of Podiatry,
   Board of Respiratory Care, or Board of Social Work established by the Act, as
   the context requires.
   
   
   
   Certificate &#8211; a certificate to practice a specialty of health occupation
   issued by a board pursuant to this subtitle or the Act.
   
   
   
   Day &#8211; a calendar day.
   
   
   
   Department &#8211; the Department of Health. Director – the Director of the
   Department of Health, or the Director’s designee.
   
   
   
   Disciplinary action &#8211; an action taken by a health care provider that
   limits or revokes the privileges of a physician to practice medicine at any
   medical facility of that provider or that results in the termination of the
   physician’s employment or other contractual relationship with the provider
   due to substandard quality of clinical practice, unprofessional behavior, or
   substance abuse.
   
   
   
   Employs &#8211; the action of a health care provider to enter into an
   employment or other contractual relationship with a physician to practice
   medicine or to grant a physician privileges to practice medicine at any
   medical facility of that provider.
   
   
   
   Health care provider &#8211; an individual or entity licensed or otherwise
   authorized under District law to provide healthcare service, including a
   hospital, nursing facility, comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation facility,
   home health agency, hospice program, renal dialysis facility, ambulatory
   surgical center, pharmacy, physician or health care practitioner’s office,
   long-term care facility, behavior health residential treatment facility,
   health clinic, clinical laboratory, health center, physician, physician
   assistant, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, certified registered
   nurse anesthetist, certified nurse midwife, psychologist, certified social
   worker, registered dietitian or nutrition professional, physical or
   occupational therapist, pharmacist, or other individual health care
   practitioner.
   
   
   
   Legal holiday &#8211; one of the following holidays:
   
   
   
   (a)	New Year’s Day;
   
   
   
   (b)	Martin Luther King, Jr.’s Birthday;
   
   
   
   (c)	Washington’s Birthday;
   
   
   
   (d)	Memorial Day;
   
   
   
   (e)	Independence Day;
   
   
   
   (f)	Labor Day;
   
   
   
   (g)	Columbus Day;
   
   
   
   (h)	Veterans Day;
   
   
   
   (i)	Thanksgiving Day;
   
   
   
   (j)	Christmas Day; or
   
   
   
   (k)	Any other day designated as a legal holiday by the president, the
   Congress, the Mayor of the Council of the District of Columbia, on the actual
   day the legal holiday is celebrated by the government of the District of
   Columbia.
   
   
   
   License &#8211; a license to practice a health occupation issued by a board
   pursuant to this chapter or the Act.
   
   
   
   Medical facility &#8211; a hospital, nursing facility, comprehensive
   outpatient rehabilitation facility, home health agency, hospice program, renal
   dialysis facility, ambulatory surgical center, pharmacy, physician or health
   care practitioner’s office, long-term care facility, behavior health
   residential treatment facility, health clinic, clinical laboratory, or health
   center.
   
   
   
   Primary health record &#8211; the record of continuing care maintained by a
   health professional, group practice, or health care facility or agency
   containing all diagnostic and therapeutic services rendered to an individual
   patient by the health professional, group practice, or health care facility,
   or agency.
   
   
   
   Registration &#8211; a registration required to practice a health occupation
   issued pursuant to this chapter or the Act.
   
   
   
   System Administrator &#8211; the Senior Deputy of the Department’s Health
   Regulation and Licensing Administration, or such other individual as
   designated by the Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 5859, 5870 (September 11, 1987);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 6820 (July 19, 2002); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 11237 (December 13, 2002); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 6455 (June 13, 2008).
