                                  DC REGULATIONS

LICENSE APPROVAL BEFORE ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY (§ 23-405)

405.1. The Board is authorized, in its discretion, to approve the granting of
   a license, subject to all other requirements of this title, to an applicant
   prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the building in which
   the licensed premises shall be located, if the Board finds to its satisfaction
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That an applicant for a license has entered into a bona fide agreement
   with the owner of a building proposed to be constructed or remodeled;
   
   
   
   (b)	That, under the bona fide agreement, the applicant has agreed to lease,
   purchase, or otherwise occupy all or a portion of the building for the
   applicant&#8217;s use in carrying on the business which would be authorized by
   the license;
   
   
   
   (c)	That the agreement provides that so much of the proposed building as is to
   be occupied for business purposes licensed under this chapter is to be
   constructed or remodeled in accordance with specifications set forth in the
   agreement;
   
   
   
   (d)	That the agreement describes the quarters as reasonably adequate and
   appropriate for the business to be carried on under the authority of the
   license;
   
   
   
   (e)	That the zoning of the premises to be licensed will allow the issuance of
   the license; and
   
   
   
   (f)	That the applicant shall not engage in the sale or service of alcoholic
   beverages until a certificate of occupancy and all other business licenses
   have been issued for the business.

   405.2. An application for a license under § 405.1 shall be made on forms
   prescribed by the Board and shall include the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The street address of the establishment to be licensed or, in the case of
   new construction, the lot and square numbers of the ground upon which the
   establishment will be located; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The date on which the applicant plans to open the establishment.

   405.3. A license approved by the Board under § 405.1 shall not be issued
   until the premises have been finally inspected by the Board or its staff, or
   until the applicant provides to the Board the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A certificate of occupancy for the licensed premises;
   
   
   
   (b)	Copies of all necessary business licenses for the premises;
   
   
   
   (c)	Copies of all tax registration documents for the business; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Copies of an executed lease or deed for the licensed premises, provided,
   however, that the business terms of the lease including the rent may be
   redacted by the applicant.

   405.4. Applicants for licensure under § 405.1 shall pay the appropriate
   license fee, as set forth in § 208 of this title, and approval by the Board
   shall remain effective until the end of the appropriate licensure period set
   out in § 207 of this title. If the applicant has not opened his or her
   business by the time the licensure period ends, the Board may, in its
   discretion, extend its approval through such further period as it deems proper
   upon payment by the applicant of all or any portion of the license renewal
   fee.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 4309 (April 30, 2004); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12991 (December 26, 2008).
