                                  DC REGULATIONS

LATE BIDS, LATE MODIFICATIONS, AND LATE WITHDRAWALS (ยง 30-2222)

2222.1. Unless the solicitation states another time, the deadline for receipt
   of bids shall be 2:00 p.m., local time, at the designated Agency office on the
   date that bids are due.

   2222.2. Any bid received at the place designated in the solicitation after the
   time and date set for receipt of bids shall be considered a &#8220;late&#8221;
   bid unless it was received prior to the contract award and either of the
   following applies:
   
   
   
   (a)	It was sent by registered or certified mail not later than five (5)
   calendar days before the bid receipt date specified; or
   
   
   
   (b)	It was sent by mail (or telegram if authorized) and the contracting
   officer determines that the late receipt was due solely to mishandling by the
   Agency after receipt at the location specified in the IFB.

   2222.3. Any request for withdrawal or request for modification received after
   the time and date set for opening of bids at the place designated for opening
   shall be considered late.

   2222.4. The following information shall, if available, be included in the
   Agency files with respect to each late bid, late modification of a bid, or
   late withdrawal of bid:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement of the date and hour of mailing, filing, or delivery;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement of the date and hour of receipt;
   
   
   
   (c)	A written determination, with supporting facts, why the late bid, late
   modification, or late withdrawal was or was not considered;
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement of the disposition of the late action; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The envelope, or other covering, if the late bid or modification was
   considered.

   2222.5. The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of a late bid, late
   modification, or late withdrawal sent either by registered or certified mail
   shall be a U.S. or Canadian Postal Service postmark on the wrapper or on the
   original receipt from the U.S. or Canadian Postal Service. If neither postmark
   shows a legible date, the bid, modification, or withdrawal shall be deemed to
   have been mailed late. When the postmark shows the date but not the hour, the
   time is presumed to be the last minute of the date shown. If no date is shown
   in the postmark, the bid shall be considered late unless the bidder can
   furnish evidence from the postal authorities of timely mailing.

   2222.6. A late bid, late request for modification, or late request for
   withdrawal shall not be considered, except as provided otherwise in this
   section.

   2222.7. A late modification of a successful bid which makes its terms more
   favorable to the Agency shall be considered at any time it is received and may
   be accepted.

   2222.8. A late bid, late modification of bid, or late withdrawal of bid that
   is not considered for award shall be held unopened, unless opened for
   identification, until after award and then retained with unsuccessful bids.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6723 (September 22, 1989).
