                                  DC REGULATIONS

CANCELLATION OF AN INVITATION FOR BIDS AFTER OPENING (ยง 30-2230)

2230.1. An IFB may be cancelled, or all bids rejected, only if the Director
   determines in writing that the action taken is in the best interests of the
   Agency. If all bids have been rejected, the contracting officer shall cancel
   the solicitation.

   2230.2. Every effort shall be made to anticipate changes in a requirement
   before the date of bid opening and to notify all prospective bidders of any
   resulting modification or cancellation.

   2230.3. After the opening of a bid, an IFB shall not be cancelled and
   resolicited due solely to increased requirements for the items being procured.
   Award shall be made on the initial IFB and the additional quantity shall be
   treated as a new procurement.

   2230.4. An IFB may be cancelled and all bids rejected before award but after
   opening when the Director determines in writing that cancellation is in the
   best interests of the Agency for any reason, including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Inadequate or ambiguous specifications were cited in the IFB;
   
   
   
   (b)	Specifications have been revised;
   
   
   
   (c)	The supplies or services being contracted for are no longer required;
   
   
   
   (d)	The IFB did not provide for consideration of all factors of cost to the
   Agency;
   
   
   
   (e)	Bids received indicate that the needs of the Agency can be satisfied by a
   less expensive article differing from that for which the bids were invited;
   
   
   
   (f)	All otherwise acceptable bids received are at unreasonable prices, or only
   one (1) bid is received and the contracting officer cannot determine the
   reasonableness of the bid price, or no responsive bid has been received from a
   responsible bidder; or
   
   
   
   (g)	The bids were not independently arrived at in open competition, were
   collusive, or were submitted in bad faith.

   2230.5. If administrative difficulties are encountered after bid opening which
   may delay award beyond the bidders&#8217; acceptance period, the several
   lowest bidders shall be requested before expiration of their bids, to extend
   the bid acceptance period (with consent of sureties, if any) in order to avoid
   the need for readvertisement.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6727 (September 22, 1989).
