                                  DC REGULATIONS

INVITATION FOR BIDS (ยง 30-2201)

2201.1. Each IFB shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Instructions and information concerning the requirements for submission of
   bids, including the time and date set for receipt of the bids and the address
   where bids are to be delivered;
   
   
   
   (b)	The purchase description, delivery or performance schedule, and any
   special instructions necessary; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement indicating whether award will be made on the basis of the
   lowest bid price or the lowest evaluated bid price, whichever is applicable.

   2201.2. The contracting officer shall prepare each IFB using a uniform
   contract format, unless a special contract format is authorized by the
   Director.

   2201.3. The uniform contract format shall contain the following in the order
   specified:
   
   
   
   (a)	The solicitation and contract form prescribed by the Director;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the supplies, services, or other items, quantities, and
   prices;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any description or specifications necessary to permit maximum practical
   competition;
   
   
   
   (d)	Packaging, packing, preservation, and marking requirements;
   
   
   
   (e)	Inspection, acceptance, quality assurance, and reliability requirements;
   
   
   
   (f)	Requirements for time, place, and method of delivery or performance;
   
   
   
   (g)	Requirements for accounting and appropriation data and any required
   contract administration information;
   
   
   
   (h)	Special contract requirements;
   
   
   
   (i)	Contract clauses or provisions required by law or this title;
   
   
   
   (j)	A list of documents, exhibits, and other attachments;
   
   
   
   (k)	Representation, certifications, and other statements of bidders;
   
   
   
   (l)	Instructions, conditions, and notices to bidders; and
   
   
   
   (m)	Evaluation factors for award, such as any price related factors other than
   the bid price.

   2201.4. The IFB shall state whether an award shall be made on the basis the
   lowest bid price or the lowest evaluated bid price. If the lowest evaluated
   bid price basis is used, objective measurable criteria shall be used. The
   objective measurable criteria shall be related to price.

   2201.5. If lowest evaluated bid price is the basis for award, the objective
   measurable criteria to be used shall be set forth in the IFB.

   2201.6. The IFB shall require written acknowledgement by each bidder of the
   receipt of all amendments, addenda, and changes issued.

   2201.7. Postage or envelopes bearing &#8220;Postage and Fees Paid&#8221;
   indicia shall not be distributed with the IFB or otherwise supplied to
   prospective bidders.

   2201.8. The contracting officer shall thoroughly review each IFB before
   issuance to detect and correct discrepancies or ambiguities that could limit
   competition or result in the receipt of nonresponsive bids.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6716 (September 22, 1989).
