                                  DC REGULATIONS

DESCRIPTIVE LITERATURE (ยง 30-2207)

2207.1. If the bidder is required to furnish descriptive literature, this
   requirement shall be stated in the IFB.

   2207.2. The contracting officer shall not require bidders to furnish
   descriptive literature unless the contracting officer needs it to determine
   before award whether the products offered meet the specifications or to
   establish exactly what each bidder proposes to furnish.

   2207.3. Unsolicited descriptive literature not required by the IFB shall not
   be considered as qualifying the bid and shall be disregarded.

   2207.4. If descriptive literature is required, the contracting officer shall
   include a written statement of the reasons why product acceptability cannot be
   determined without submission of descriptive literature and shall include the
   document in the contract file.

   2207.5. If descriptive literature is to be required, the IFB shall clearly
   identify the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The type or contents of the descriptive literature that is required to be
   furnished;
   
   
   
   (b)	The purpose for which the literature is required;
   
   
   
   (c)	The extent to which the literature will be considered in the evaluation of
   bids; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The rules that will apply if a bidder fails to furnish the literature
   before bid opening or if the literature furnished does not comply with the
   requirements of the IFB.

   2207.6. The contracting officer may waive the requirement for furnishing
   descriptive literature if either of the following occurs:
   
   
   
   (a)	The bidder states in the bid that the product being offered is the same as
   a product previously or currently being furnished to the Agency; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The contracting officer, on advice of technical personnel, determines that
   the product offered by the bidder complies with the specification requirements
   of the current IFB.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 6681, 6719 (September 22, 1989).
