                                  DC REGULATIONS

SITE PRIORITIZATION FOR FUND EXPENDITURES (ยง 20-6405)

6405.1. The Director shall prioritize all eligible leaking underground storage
   tank (LUST) sites based on factors that include consideration of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The danger of fire or explosion;
   
   
   
   (b)	The danger of toxic vapors;
   
   
   
   (c)	The environmental setting of the site including proximity to potable water
   supply, ground water or surface waters which may be impacted;
   
   
   
   (d)	The present and future uses of the affected aquifer or surface waters;
   
   
   
   (e)	The potential for migration off-site;
   
   
   
   (f)	The type of contaminant;
   
   
   
   (g)	The size of the release (number of gallons of regulated substance lost);
   
   
   
   (h)	Whether the leak is continuing or has been contained;
   
   
   
   (i)	Whether publicly owned lands are impacted;
   
   
   
   (j)	The degree to which human health, safety, or welfare may be affected by
   exposure to the contamination;
   
   
   
   (k)	The size of the population or area affected by the contamination; and
   
   
   
   (l)	The time that has elapsed since the release was detected.

   6405.2. The priority list of sites shall be based on an ordering of scored
   sites that the highest scored site(s) will be of highest priority for response
   action and the lowest scored site will be of lowest priority for response
   action.

   6405.3. The Director may adjust the priority list as necessary based upon
   changing environmental conditions, public health needs, cost effectiveness,
   efficiency, and available resources.

   6405.4. Regardless of the position of a site on the priority list, the
   Director may initiate emergency action for those sites that, in the judgment
   of the Director, present an imminent hazard to human health and safety or
   where failure to prevent migration of a regulated substance would cause
   irreversible damage to the environment. Site classification pursuant to ยง
   6206 shall be completed to evaluate the need for additional assessment or
   development of a corrective action plan.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7835 (November 12, 1993); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999).
