                                  DC REGULATIONS

DOCUMENTATION OF FUND EXPENDITURES (ยง 20-6404)

6404.1. Disbursements of monies from the Fund shall be documented in
   accordance with the requirements of this section.

   6404.2. The Director shall maintain original records, as are kept in the
   ordinary course of business, for all Fund expenditures.

   6404.3. The Director shall maintain documentation that tracks the cost of
   cleanup and enforcement actions on a site-specific basis.

   6404.4. Documentation of direct costs shall identify costs by activity.

   6404.5. Any District agency contracting with or procuring services for the
   Director shall maintain and make available to the Director upon request,
   site-specific documentation of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Time and attendance records including a description of employee
   activities, and fringe benefit calculations for all payroll expenses;
   
   
   
   (b)	Copies of any advertisements, requests for proposals, proposals,
   contractor cost data, proposal evaluations, work change orders, reports on
   contractor work, audits of contractors, contracts, or other documents related
   to procurement of contractors to perform corrective actions;
   
   
   
   (c)	Invoices, approval of invoices, and proof of payments for all contractor
   services;
   
   
   
   (d)	Invoices, leases, proof of payment, receipts and, where feasible, hourly
   records of equipment use for any equipment leased or purchased;
   
   
   
   (e)	Worksheets showing allocation of time to project and calculation of
   indirect costs;
   
   
   
   (f)	Any authorizations, vouchers or receipts related to travel; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Any other records kept in the normal course of accounting or required by
   federal regulation.

   6404.6. Any contractor who performs corrective action work pursuant to a
   contract with the District, shall maintain records on a site-specific basis
   and shall bill the District for activities performed on a site-specific basis
   in accordance with District procurement regulations and policies.

   6404.7. The Director shall maintain hard copies of all original cost documents
   for at least three(3) years from completion of the final expenditure report.
   If any litigation, audit or other action has been started before expiration of
   the three (3) year period, the records must be retained until completion of
   the action or resolution of all issues.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7835 (November 12, 1993); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999).
