                                  DC REGULATIONS

PERMISSIBLE DISBURSEMENTS FROM THE FUND (§ 20-6403)

6403.1. The term corrective action, as used in this chapter, shall encompass
   any and all actions described in §§ 6202 through 6214 of this Subtitle,
   including but not limited to, preliminary investigations, initial response
   actions, initial abatement, free product removal, site assessment, site
   assessment plans, development and implementation of corrective action plans,
   remediation, monitoring, and well closure.

   6403.2. The Director may undertake corrective action where there is a release
   of a regulated substance into the environment, and may disburse UST Trust Fund
   monies for this purpose if the action is necessary to protect human health or
   the environment, and one or more of the following exist:
   
   
   
   (a)	No person can be found within ninety (90) days or a shorter period, as may
   be necessary to protect human health or the environment, who is:
   
   
   
   (1)	An owner or operator;
   
   
   
   (2)	Subject to the corrective action rules in Chapter 62 of this Subtitle; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Capable of proper implementation of the required corrective action; or
   
   
   
   (b)	A situation exists that requires immediate action by the Director to
   protect human health and the environment; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Corrective action costs at a facility exceed the amount of coverage
   required by the Director pursuant to Chapter 67 of this Subtitle and
   expenditures from the Fund are necessary to ensure an effective corrective
   action; or
   
   
   
   (d)	The responsible party has failed or refused to comply with an order issued
   by the Director, an Administrative Law Judge, or other representative of the
   Mayor, that requires compliance with the corrective action rules.

   6403.3. The Director may deem an action necessary to protect human health or
   the environment if any of the following conditions exist, or if a field
   investigation or site assessment is necessary to determine whether any of the
   following conditions exist:
   
   
   
   (a)	There is an accumulation of toxic, flammable or explosive vapors in
   dwellings, sewers, or in the surrounding area;
   
   
   
   (b)	There is floating free product on surface or ground water;
   
   
   
   (c)	There is soil, ground-water or surface water contamination above the
   maximum level permitted under District regulations;
   
   
   
   (d)	There is a spill or release of a regulated substance to the environment;
   
   
   
   (e)	There is a danger of migration of the release into the surface waters,
   ground waters, soils or air of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (f)	The release poses a danger to plants or animals in the vicinity; or
   
   
   
   (g)	The release poses a danger to public health.

   6403.4. Except as provided in § 6403.5, disbursements may be made from the
   Fund to pay for the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Costs of persons or companies performing corrective actions as defined in
   § 6403.1;
   
   
   
   (b)	Housing and relocation assistance for persons forced to relocate due to
   contamination from a LUST site;
   
   
   
   (c)	Costs related to cost recovery and enforcement proceedings;
   
   
   
   (d)	Provision of alternative water supplies;
   
   
   
   (e)	Exposure assessments;
   
   
   
   (f)	Costs of restoring property after assessment or remediation performed at
   the direction of UST Branch; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Administrative and operational costs incurred in the day-to-day
   administration of the UST Program including personnel costs, equipment,
   contract costs, supplies, training and travel. The costs shall not exceed two
   hundred fifty thousand dollars ($ 250,000) per year during the first three
   years that tanks are registered, after which a new &#8220;cap&#8221; shall be
   established by the Director.

   6403.5. Disbursements of costs recovered from responsible parties (based upon
   the expenditure of Federal LUST Trust Monies) which are deposited into the
   Fund may be made only for &#8220;cost eligible activities&#8221; permitted
   under federal law and regulations.

   6403.6. Disbursements from the Fund for corrective actions shall be made in
   accordance with the priority system set forth in § 6405.

   6403.7. Disbursements may be made to undertake corrective action where there
   is a release of a regulated substance as set forth in § 6403.2.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7835, 7907 (November 12, 1993);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999).
