                                  DC REGULATIONS

FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR AN APPLICATION FOR A CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE
AND NECESSITY (ยง 15-1501)

1501.1. Applications for a Certificate shall be submitted in writing and on
   forms prescribed by the Commission.

   1501.2. Commission certification shall be obtained before the services
   enumerated in ยง1506.2 may be offered in the District of Columbia. Commission
   approval shall be obtained before any sale or transfer of effective control by
   means of sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition of ten percent (10%)
   or more of the stock or voting rights in a public utility holding a
   certificate of public convenience and necessity. This subsection is
   inapplicable for those utilities exempted by ยง 1509.1.

   1501.3. Each applicant shall be required to address the following matters, in
   a substantial manner and with particularity, consistent with the scope of the
   authorization sought:
   
   
   
   (a)	Demonstrate that the applicant&#8217;s entry into the requested service
   field is responsive to public need and demand;
   
   
   
   (b)	Demonstrate the technical feasibility of the proposed system and the
   technical competence of the applicant;
   
   
   
   (c)	Describe the proposed service including terms, conditions, area of
   coverage, quality, and features of service, and differences from any service
   presently provided in the proposed service area;
   
   
   
   (d)	Demonstrate the financial responsibility of the applicant; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Demonstrate the economic feasibility of the proposed service in the market
   to be served.

   1501.4. Unless otherwise specified by the Commission, to be deemed complete,
   all application submissions shall include, either in the application itself or
   in exhibits, the following data:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address and telephone number of the public utility filing the
   application;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name of the individual authorized to respond to questions by the
   Commission or its staff regarding the application;
   
   
   
   (c)	The service field in which the applicant wishes to operate as well as a
   full description of the proposed service and the manner in which the same will
   be provided or constructed;
   
   
   
   (d)	The names and addresses of all utilities, corporations, persons or other
   entities, whether publicly or privately operated, with which the proposed
   service is likely to compete, and of the jurisdictions within which service
   will be rendered;
   
   
   
   (e)	A map of suitable scale showing the location or route of any proposed
   facility, and its relation to other public utilities, corporations, persons or
   entities with which the same is likely to compete;
   
   
   
   (f)	Facts showing that the public convenience and necessity requires, or will
   require, the proposed service;
   
   
   
   (g)	A statement detailing the estimated annual costs, both fixed and
   operating, associated with the facility or service contemplated by the
   applicant;
   
   
   
   (h)	Statements or exhibits showing the financial ability of the applicant to
   render the proposed service together with information regarding the manner in
   which the applicant proposes to finance the cost of the proposed construction
   or extension;
   
   
   
   (i)	A statement of the proposed rates to be charged for service or as a result
   
   of construction of the facility; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Projections of estimated demand and revenues for each of the first five
   (5) years of service contemplated by the applicant.

   1501.5. An application submission shall also specify both the time and a
   timetable that the applicant will require to make the proposed service
   available.

   1501.6. The applicant shall provide any other information the Commission shall
   indicate will be required to evaluate the application, within fifteen (15)
   working days of the Commission&#8217;s request. The information shall be
   served on the Office of the People&#8217;s Counsel and all other parties of
   record.

   1501.7. In addition to the copies required to be filed with the Commission
   pursuant to ยง100.11 of this title, an applicant shall be required to forward
   one (1) complete copy of the application submission to the Office of the
   People&#8217;s Counsel.

   1501.8. Each applicant shall be responsible for the continuing accuracy and
   completeness of information furnished in a pending application or in
   Commission proceedings involving a pending application.

   1501.9. Whenever the information furnished in the pending application is no
   longer substantially accurate and complete in all significant respects, the
   applicant shall amend the application so as to furnish additional or corrected
   information within twenty (20) days after the applicant becomes aware of the
   change, unless good cause is shown, and shall serve the parties of record.

   1501.10. Whenever there has been a substantial change as to any other matter
   which may be of decisional significance in a Commission proceeding involving
   the pending application, the applicant shall submit a statement furnishing
   such additional or corrected information within twenty (20) days after the
   applicant becomes aware of the change, unless good cause is shown, and shall
   serve the parties of record.

   1501.11. If the matter is before any court for review, statements and
   amendments shall also be served upon the Commission&#8217;s General Counsel.

   1501.12. For the purposes of this section, an application is
   &#8220;pending&#8221; before the Commission from the time it is accepted for
   filing by the Commission until a Commission grant or denial of the application
   is no longer subject to reconsideration by the Commission or to review by any
   court.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 38 DCR 16, 17 (January 4, 1991).
