                                  DC REGULATIONS

MEETINGS AND HEARINGS (ยง 11-3105)

3105.1. On or about the first (1st) day of each three (3) month period during
   the year, the Director shall cause to be published in the D.C. Register, and
   shall post in the Office of Zoning, a twelve (12)-month calendar or schedule
   of dates setting forth the dates upon which meetings and hearings shall occur,
   as well as the dates by which an appeal or application must be filed with the
   Board to allow its consideration on a specific hearing date. Such calendar or
   schedule also shall set forth any additional hearing dates as may be required
   by the Board to permit consideration of appeals or applications that have been
   timely and appropriately filed for a specific hearing date and that, but for
   reasons of excessive number of cases, continuances or otherwise, are not able
   to be heard or considered on such date.

   3105.2. All meetings and hearings of the Board shall be open to the public,
   except that the Board may in its discretion close a meeting to consider
   personnel matters, litigation, or other matters that are privileged or
   sensitive and are not required to be open by applicable law. The Board shall
   keep minutes of its proceedings as prescribed in ยง 3105.6(d).

   3105.3. All records of the Board shall be filed in the Office of Zoning and
   shall be open to public inspection.

   3105.4. The Board shall annually, on or before the first (1st) day of
   September, make a report to the Zoning Commission and the Mayor, summarizing
   cases considered and actions taken for the immediately preceding fiscal year.

   3105.5. [RESERVED]

   3105.6. Subject to the direction of the Board and its chairperson, the
   Director shall perform the following duties:
   
   
   
   (a)	Conduct all correspondence of the Board, send out all notices required by
   this title, attend all meetings and hearings of the Board, keep the docket and
   minutes of the Board&#8217;s proceedings, compile all required records, and
   maintain the necessary files and indexes;
   
   
   
   (b)	Enter in the docket the number assigned to each appeal or application, the
   name of the appellant or applicant, a short description of the premises (by
   street number or otherwise), the nature of the appeal or application, and the
   final disposition of the proceeding;
   
   
   
   (c)	Enter in the docket all continuances, postponements, dates of sending
   notices, and other steps taken or acts done by the Board or its officers on
   behalf of the Board;
   
   
   
   (d)	Enter in the minute book the resolution relating to each case acted on by
   the Board, the vote of each member of the Board (those absent or failing to
   vote being so marked), all other actions of the Board, and the full reasons
   for its decisions; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Issue certifications of zoning on plats duly issued by the Office of the
   Surveyor, in accordance with the procedures established by the Director.

   3105.7. The proposed public agenda for each meeting shall be posted in the
   Office of Zoning and made available to the public at least seven (7) days
   prior to the meeting or hearing. The schedule for each public hearing shall be
   posted in the Office of Zoning and made available to the public at least
   thirty (30) days prior to the hearing.

   3105.8. Copies of the agenda or schedule for each meeting or hearing shall be
   available to the public at the meeting or hearing.

   3105.9. The Board may amend the agenda or schedule at the meeting or hearing.

   3105.10. In addition to those hearings placed on the calendar pursuant to ยง
   3105.1, the Board shall schedule such hearings as may be needed in order to
   receive evidence and testimony on specific appeals and applications that have
   been previously advertised. Such additional hearings shall be held at the time
   and place as the Board or the presiding officer designates.

   3105.11. Unless all parties to a hearing before the Board agree otherwise, or
   unless the Board orders otherwise, the Board shall not postpone or continue a
   hearing for a period in excess of thirty (30) days from the date of such
   postponement or continuance or until the next available scheduled hearing
   date, whichever is earlier.

   3105.12. Meetings and hearings shall be held at such time and place as the
   Board or the presiding officer may designate.

   3105.13. Meetings and hearings may be adjourned from time to time. If the time
   and place of resumption is publicly announced when the adjournment is ordered,
   no further notice shall be required.

   3105.14. A member absent at the decision meeting may cast an absentee vote
   only if the member attended all of the hearings on the appeal or application.

   3105.15. A member attending the decision meeting and having read the
   transcript and reviewed the complete record may participate and may vote even
   though that member may not have attended any or all of the prior meetings or
   hearings on the appeal or application.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7853, 7894-96 (October 1, 1999);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9741-43 (December 8, 2000),
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR
   8335, 8559-60 (October 20, 2000).
