                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOX ALLOWANCE TRACKING SYSTEM (ยง 20-1006)

1006.1. NATS is an electronic record keeping and reporting system that is the
   official database for all allowance use and transfer within this program. NATS
   will track:
   
   
   
   (a)	Allowances allocated to each budget source;
   
   
   
   (b)	Allowances held in each account;
   
   
   
   (c)	Allowances used by each budget source during each control period;
   
   
   
   (d)	Accounts established for each budget source to determine compliance for
   the source;
   
   
   
   (e)	Accounts opened by individuals or entities, upon request, which are not
   used to determine compliance;
   
   
   
   (f)	Allowance transfers, as submitted voluntarily by the source; and,
   
   
   
   (g)	Deductions of allowances for compliance purposes.

   1006.2. NATS will provide a compliance account for each budget source that
   will hold the current compliance year and future year allowances. NATS will
   label each account with an account number and provide the following
   information, at a minimum, to be associated with each account: name of account
   owner, name of AAR, mailing address of AAR, phone number of AAR, street
   address of associated budget source, and state in which the budget source is
   located.

   1006.3. NATS will allow establishment of general accounts. Any person or group
   may open a general account. An AAR must be designated for a general account
   and shall have obligations similar to an AAR designated by a budget source.

   1006.4. Only an AAR can request transfers of allowances in a NATS account. For
   each account, one AAR and one alternate shall be identified to represent the
   owner or operator of the budget source, or owner of a general account. The AAR
   shall be responsible for all transactions and reports submitted to the NATS.
   The Alternate AAR shall have the same authority as the primary representative.
   However, all correspondence from the Administrator shall be directed to the
   primary AAR.

   1006.5. The AAR will be officially designated upon the Director&#8217;s
   receipt of a form entitled &#8220;Account Certificate of
   Representation&#8221;, which constitutes an agreement of representation and
   contains, at a minimum, the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Identification of the budget source by plant name, state, and boiler
   number for which the certification of representation is submitted;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name, address, telephone and facsimile numbers of the AAR and any
   alternate; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A list of owners and operators of the budget source.

   1006.6. The certificate of representation shall be signed by the AAR for the
   budget source and shall contain the following statement:
   
   
   
   I certify that I, (name of AAR), was selected as the Authorized Account
   Representative as applicable by an agreement binding on the owners and
   operators of the budget source legally designated as (name of facility).

   1006.7. Designation of an AAR for each budget source must be completed within
   thirty (30) days of the effective date of this section. Thereafter, an AAR can
   be replaced by submitting a new &#8220;Account Certificate of
   Representation&#8221;. The Director will confirm the change of AAR once the
   change is recorded in NATS.

   1006.8. Each facility account will have a unique identification number and
   each allowance will be assigned a unique serial number. Each allowance serial
   number will also indicate the year of allocation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by final rulemaking published at 47 DCR 8646(October 10,
   2000); as amended by final rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9686 (December 8,
   2000).
