                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICABILITY (ยง 20-1000)

1000.1. This Chapter applies to any owner or operator of a budget source.

   1000.2. The requirements for an Authorized Account Representative (AAR) and
   account maintenance fees apply to any owner of a general account.

   1000.3. Any person who owns, operates, leases or controls a stationary source
   not subject to this Chapter may opt-in subject to the following conditions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any person who owns, operates, leases or controls a stationary source that
   opts in shall be considered a budget source upon approval of an opt-in
   application and shall be subject to all terms and conditions, including
   requirements for allowance transfer or use, emissions monitoring, record
   keeping, reporting, penalties and fees.
   
   
   
   (b)	The owner or operator of a stationary source shall submit to the Director
   an application, including documentation of baseline control period emissions.
   Baseline control period emissions from the source, as may be adjusted pursuant
   to ยง 1000.3(c), shall be added to the NOx budget for the District of Columbia
   before the Director allocates allowances to the source.
   
   
   
   (c)	The Director shall allocate allowances to any opt-in source, that by size
   would be considered an affected facility, equivalent to the OTC MOU emission
   reduction applied to baseline control period emissions, or the permitted
   allowable NOx emissions from the source, whichever is less.
   
   
   
   (d)	The Director shall allocate allowances to any opt-in source, not otherwise
   considered an affected facility, equivalent to the baseline control period
   emissions or the permitted allowable NOx emissions from the source, whichever
   is less. In no case will an allocation to a source that opts in require
   adjustments to the allocation of any other budget source.
   
   
   
   (e)	Any person who opts in shall be subject to modification of his or her
   federally-enforceable operating permit to include applicability of this
   Chapter, authority to trade allowances and authority to emit, pursuant to
   allowances allocated or obtained by the allowance transfer deadline.
   
   
   
   (f)	Any person who opts in and subsequently ceases or curtails operations
   shall be subject to an allowance adjustment that represents emissions
   equivalent to those reduced through cessation or curtailment of emitting
   operations.
   
   
   
   (g)	Any person who opts in cannot opt out unless he or she ceases NOx emitting
   operations at the opt-in source subject to the allowance adjustment provisions
   of ยง 1000.3(f).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by final rulemaking published at 47 DCR 8646(October 10,
   2000); as amended by final rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9686 (December 8,
   2000).
