                                  DC REGULATIONS

ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS (ยง 29-4301)

4301.1. A woman eligible to receive services pursuant to this Chapter shall
   meet all of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be a resident of the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be at least 18 years of age, but has not attained the age of 65;
   
   
   
   (c)	Has received a screening mammogram, clinical breast exam or Pap test; or
   has received diagnostic services following an abnormal clinical breast exam,
   mammogram, or Pap test under the District of Columbia&#8217;s Breast and
   Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program, known as Project WISH;
   
   
   
   (d)	Has received a diagnosis of breast or cervical cancer or of a
   pre-cancerous condition of the breast or cervix the result of the screening or
   diagnostic service rendered pursuant to section 4301.1(c);
   
   
   
   (e)	Be determined to need treatment for either breast or cervical cancer;
   
   
   
   (f)	Be uninsured or not otherwise covered under creditable coverage, as the
   term is used under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as
   set forth in section 2701(c) of the Public Health Service Act (42 USC
   300gg(c));
   
   
   
   (g)	Ineligible for Medicaid benefits under any other mandatory categorically
   needy eligibility group; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Meets all other eligibility criteria applicable to Medicaid beneficiaries,
   including citizenship and alienage requirements.

   4301.2. A woman determined to be eligible pursuant to the criteria set forth
   in section 4301.1 shall be entitled to full Medicaid benefits. Coverage shall
   not be limited to treatment for breast or cervical cancer.

   4301.3. Consistent with Section 1902(a)(34) of the Social Security Act,
   eligibility for coverage may begin up to three months prior to the month in
   which an application was filed to receive Medicaid benefits, if as of the
   earlier date all other eligibility requirements are met.

   4301.4. Eligibility for coverage pursuant to this chapter terminates when the
   course of treatment for breast or cervical cancer is completed, or when a
   determination has been made that the patient no longer meets the eligibility
   criteria set forth in section 4301.1 of these rules and is not eligible to
   receive Medicaid benefits under an alternate eligibility category, whichever
   is earlier.

   4301.5. Eligibility shall not be limited to one period. A new period of
   eligibility and coverage shall commence each time a woman is screened in
   accordance with section 4301.1(c) and determined to need treatment for breast
   or cervical cancer, and meets all other eligibility requirements.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 997 (January 31, 2003).
