                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUSPENSION, CONVERSION, AND REVOCATION OF LICENSES (ยง 29-6311)

6311.1. CFSA may revoke or suspend a license for a period of no longer than
   sixty (60) days, or convert any original annual or annual license to a
   provisional or restricted license, if it finds an immediate or serious danger
   to the health, safety, or welfare of the residents.

   6311.2. The contracting entity shall immediately remove all residents from an
   independent living program when it suspends or revokes a license.

   6311.3. CFSA shall, within one (1) business day, give the independent living
   program written notice of a revocation, suspension, or conversion. The notice
   shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	The grounds for the decision;
   
   
   
   (b)	Notice of the right to an administrative review of the decision with CFSA;
   
   
   
   (c)	Notice that the independent living program has seven (7) business days
   from the day notice is received to request an expedited, preliminary review
   hearing; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Notice that the independent living program has thirty (30) days from the
   day notice is received to request a final review hearing.

   6311.4. If an independent living program whose license has been suspended
   agrees to take appropriate corrective actions in accordance with a specific
   time frame acceptable to CFSA, CFSA may extend the suspension for no longer
   than an additional sixty (60) days.

   6311.5. If an independent living program whose license has been suspended does
   not request a preliminary review hearing or a final review hearing, and the
   independent living program has not either agreed to take appropriate
   corrective actions in accordance with a specific time frame acceptable to CFSA
   or taken the appropriate corrective actions in accordance with the specific
   time frame acceptable to the applicable licensing agency, CFSA may revoke the
   license.

   6311.6. If CFSA determines that an independent living program whose license
   has been suspended satisfies the requirements of a license, CFSA shall
   reinstate the license.

   6311.7. If CFSA determines that an independent living program whose license
   has been converted satisfies the requirements of an original annual or annual
   license, CFSA shall reinstate the independent living program&#8217;s annual
   license.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 1591 (February 22, 2002).
