                                  DC REGULATIONS

HEALTH CARE (§ 29-6342)

6342.1. An independent living program shall develop and implement a written
   plan addressing the process and procedures for meeting the residents&#8217;
   preventative, routine, and emergency health care.

   6342.2. The plan required by § 6342.1 shall address:
   
   
   
   (a)	The requirements of § 6342;
   
   
   
   (b)	The provision of medical examinations to residents, including requiring:
   
   
   
   (1)	A comprehensive medical examination of each resident by a licensed
   physician within seventy-two (72) hours of admission unless the contracting
   entity provides a written report of such examination conducted no more than
   thirty (30) calendar days prior to admission; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Routine medical, dental, vision, and hearing examinations at intervals
   recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics;
   
   
   
   (c)	The provision of effective mental health services, including but not
   limited to:
   
   
   
   (1)	A preliminary mental health screen by a licensed mental health
   practitioner within three (3) business days before or after admission;
   
   
   
   (2)	If indicated by the preliminary mental health screen, a mental health
   evaluation and assessment, including a standardized diagnostic mental health
   assessment completed within fifteen (15) calendar days of admission by a
   qualified mental health practitioner;
   
   
   
   (3)	Substance abuse prevention, intervention, and treatment; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Access to emergency mental health services, both in-patient and
   out-patient, on a twenty-four (24) hour per day, seven (7) day per week basis;
   
   
   
   (d)	Maintenance of required immunizations as recommended by the American
   Academy of Pediatrics;
   
   
   
   (e)	Provisions for obtaining prosthetic and corrective devices as medically
   required, including eyeglasses and hearing aids;
   
   
   
   (f)	The use, administration, supervision, response, and storage of
   medications, including notification to the attending physician of any adverse
   reaction or change in a resident&#8217;s behavior in response to a medication;
   
   
   
   (g)	Provision of health education pursuant to § 6330.7;
   
   
   
   (h)	Explanation of health treatments;
   
   
   
   (i)	Provision of information to the contracting entity;
   
   
   
   (j)	A standardized system for collecting, recording, and conveying each
   resident&#8217;s medical, including mental health, information; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Provide or arrange for smoking cessation programs for residents.

   6342.3. Prescription medications shall be administered only by a dentist,
   physician, physician&#8217;s assistant, registered nurse, or practical nurse
   who is a licensed health professional pursuant to the Health Occupations
   Revision Act of 1985, D.C. Law 6-99, D.C. Official Code § 3-1201.01 et seq.

   6342.4. When specifically authorized by a physician, an independent living
   program may allow a staff member to administer medications to a resident. In
   such cases, the independent living program shall ensure that the staff member
   is able responsibly to medicate, shall train the staff member concerning
   administration procedures, and shall provide supervision and monitoring. The
   independent living program shall obtain the consent of the resident and the
   resident&#8217;s parent(s) or guardian(s) prior to allowing a staff member to
   administer medications to a resident, except that consent of the parent(s) or
   guardian(s) is not required if reasonable efforts to consult the parent(s) or
   guardian(s) have been made but a parent or guardian cannot be located.

   6342.5. When specifically authorized by a physician, the independent living
   program may allow a resident to administer or self-administer medications or
   allow a resident to administer medications to his or her child. In such cases,
   the independent living program shall ensure that the resident is able
   responsibly to medicate or self-medicate, shall train the resident concerning
   administration procedures, and shall provide supervision and monitoring. The
   independent living program shall obtain the consent of the resident&#8217;s
   parent(s) or guardian(s) prior to allowing the resident to self-administer
   medications, except that consent of the parent(s) or guardian(s) is not
   required if reasonable efforts to consult the parent(s) or guardian(s) have
   been made but a parent or guardian cannot be located.

   6342.6. If medication is prescribed, an independent living program shall
   obtain a written report from the prescribing health professional detailing:
   
   
   
   (a)	The type of medication;
   
   
   
   (b)	The dosage;
   
   
   
   (c)	The necessity for the medication;
   
   
   
   (d)	The resident&#8217;s other medications and the effect of their
   interaction;
   
   
   
   (e)	The staff monitoring requirements, if any;
   
   
   
   (f)	Potential side effects;
   
   
   
   (g)	The next scheduled clinical meeting; and
   
   
   
   (h)	A current therapeutic treatment plan.

   6342.7. If a resident is less than eighteen (18) years of age, an independent
   living program shall obtain a written consent prior to treatment.

   6342.8. An independent living program shall maintain the prescribed
   medications of residents whose residence is in the main facility:
   
   
   
   (a)	In a secure area and, within that secure area, separate from that of other
   residents; and
   
   
   
   (b)	If a medication requires refrigeration, in a locked refrigerator or in a
   secure container within a refrigerator.

   6342.9. A main facility shall store all medications and medical supplies in
   their original containers, clearly labeled as to resident, and in a locked
   area accessible only to staff.

   6342.10. A main facility shall safely dispose of all outdated medications and
   supplies, and those medications and supplies no longer in use.

   6342.11. A resident whose residence is not in a main facility shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Store all medications and medical supplies in their original containers
   and clearly labeled; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Safely dispose of all outdated medications and supplies, and those
   medications and supplies no longer in use.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 1591 (February 22, 2002).
