                                  DC REGULATIONS

STATEMENT OF RESIDENTS&#8217; RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES (ยง 29-6303)

6303.1. A resident has the following rights:
   
   
   
   (a)	To be treated with fairness, dignity, and respect;
   
   
   
   (b)	To receive appropriate and reasonable adult guidance, support, and
   supervision;
   
   
   
   (c)	To be free from abuse, mistreatment, threats, harassment, or from being
   subjected to corporal punishment or other unusual or extreme methods of
   discipline;
   
   
   
   (d)	To have his or her opinion heard and to be included, to the greatest
   extent possible, and consistent with the resident&#8217;s age and level of
   development, when any major decisions, including regular case planning
   meetings, are being made effecting his or her life;
   
   
   
   (e)	To reasonable and clinically appropriate visitation, mail, and telephone
   communication with relatives, friends, attorneys, social workers, therapists,
   guardians ad litem, and other persons involved in the resident&#8217;s care or
   service provision;
   
   
   
   (f)	To have her or his relatives and designated representatives, who are
   authorized in writing by the contracting entity, communicate with the
   independent living program, ask questions of the independent living program,
   and have their questions answered promptly by the independent living program;
   
   
   
   (g)	To language translation, as necessary;
   
   
   
   (h)	Not to be deprived of specific or civil rights provided by law, including
   where applicable, the right to privacy, the right to freedom of association,
   the right to vote, the right to practice or not practice religion or faith of
   choice, the right to be free from unreasonable search and seizure, the right
   to be free from sexual harassment, and the right to be free from
   discrimination, including the right to equal access to services regardless of
   race, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability, or gender; and
   
   
   
   (i)	All other rights specifically set forth in this Chapter.

   6303.2. A resident shall accept responsibility, consistent with his or her age
   and level of development, for keeping his or her residence in good order and
   for completing assigned daily or weekly chores.

   6303.3. A resident shall comply with the policies and procedures of the
   independent living program governing her or his conduct.

   6303.4. A resident shall attend school or an alternative educational program
   as set forth in the resident&#8217;s initial ITILP or ITILP.

   6303.5. A resident shall follow appropriate minimum personal care and hygiene
   standards established by the independent living program, consistent with the
   resident&#8217;s physical and developmental capabilities.

   6303.6. An independent living program shall conspicuously post ยง 6303 in its
   main facility and place a copy in each resident handbook.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 1591 (February 22, 2002).
