                                  DC REGULATIONS

LIFE SKILLS (§ 29-6330)

6330.1. An independent living program shall assist a resident to develop and
   implement a fire safety and evacuation plan. A copy of the plan shall be
   conspicuously posted in the main facility and a copy placed in each resident
   handbook.

   6330.2. An independent living program shall conduct at least one (1) fire
   drill each month in the main facility and at least one (1) annually in each
   residence not located in the main facility, and maintain a record of each fire
   drill.

   6330.3. An independent living program shall inspect each fire extinguisher in
   the main facility and each residence at least monthly, and maintain a record
   of each fire extinguisher inspection.

   6330.4. A resident shall participate in daily living activities, which shall
   include but not be limited to maintaining:
   
   
   
   (a)	The residence and common areas;
   
   
   
   (b)	Regular personal hygiene; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Regular personal laundry.

   6330.5. Daily living activities shall not conflict with a resident&#8217;s
   ITILP.

   6330.6. A main facility shall develop, conspicuously post in the main
   facility, and follow a written plan of daily living activities for its
   residents.

   6330.7. An independent living program shall educate a resident concerning life
   skills including:
   
   
   
   (a)	How to seek and secure housing;
   
   
   
   (b)	Safe and healthy trash disposal;
   
   
   
   (c)	Housecleaning and how to maintain a clean and healthy living environment;
   
   
   
   (d)	The safe and healthy storage and disposal of dangerous or combustible
   materials such as cleaning equipment, cleaning agents, aerosol cans, or other
   chemical substances;
   
   
   
   (e)	Who to contact to maintain the residence, including how to utilize
   residence management;
   
   
   
   (f)	Simple household repairs such as how to change a light bulb and patch a
   small hole;
   
   
   
   (g)	Nutrition and the importance of maintaining an adequate and balanced diet;
   
   
   
   (h)	Purchase, preparation, and storage of food;
   
   
   
   (i)	Proper personal care, hygiene, and grooming;
   
   
   
   (j)	The selection and purchase of clothing that is affordable and appropriate
   for the resident;
   
   
   
   (k)	How to do laundry;
   
   
   
   (l)	Personal safety, including safe community and residential living, and
   responding to emergency situations;
   
   
   
   (m)	Money management, including encouraging residents to save money;
   
   
   
   (n)	General health and health management;
   
   
   
   (o)	First aid;
   
   
   
   (p)	Reproductive health and contraception;
   
   
   
   (q)	HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases;
   
   
   
   (r)	Substance abuse recognition and prevention;
   
   
   
   (s)	Parenting skills, including child development, health, and safety;
   
   
   
   (t)	Problem solving and decision-making;
   
   
   
   (u)	Conflict resolution, negotiation, team building, and peer support;
   
   
   
   (v)	Time management;
   
   
   
   (w)	Stress reduction;
   
   
   
   (x)	Employment seeking and maintenance skills;
   
   
   
   (y)	Consumer awareness;
   
   
   
   (z)	Use of public transportation;
   
   
   
   (aa)	Knowledge of public and private community resources;
   
   
   
   (bb)	Educational and career planning; and
   
   
   
   (cc)	How to identify situations requiring and how to acquire legal assistance.

   6330.8. If a resident is a teen parent who resides in the independent living
   program with her or his child, in addition to the life skills set forth in §
   6330.7, the independent living program shall educate the resident concerning:
   
   
   
   (a)	Early childhood development;
   
   
   
   (b)	Medical issues in early childhood;
   
   
   
   (c)	Discipline;
   
   
   
   (d)	Parental rights and responsibilities, including child support;
   
   
   
   (e)	Choosing and monitoring child care providers; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Sex, relationships, and family planning.

   6330.9. The education required by §§ 6330.7 and 6330.8 may be provided by an
   entity other than the independent living program.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 1591 (February 22, 2002).
