                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMISSION AND PLACEMENT (ยง 29-6339)

6339.1. The decision to admit an adolescent or young adult to an independent
   living program shall be made jointly between the contracting entity, the
   independent living program, and the adolescent or young adult.

   6339.2. To be admitted to an independent living program, an adolescent or
   young adult shall be:
   
   
   
   (a)	At least sixteen (16) years of age;
   
   
   
   (b)	Either:
   
   
   
   (1)	Employed at least part-time;
   
   
   
   (2)	Within 18 months of attaining a high school diploma;
   
   
   
   (3)	Attending a GED program;
   
   
   
   (4)	Actively engaged in a vocational program; or
   
   
   
   (5)	Attending college; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Have demonstrated sufficient maturity to enable the adolescent or young
   adult to live independently.

   6339.3. Except as provided by ยง 6339.4, a resident who is younger than 18
   years of age may reside only in the main facility.

   6339.4. A resident who is younger than 18 years of age and who is enrolled in
   a residential high school or college may reside in a school dormitory.

   6339.5. Prior to admission, the contracting entity shall determine and
   document in writing that the services, activities, and programs provided by
   the independent living program adequately can meet the needs of the adolescent
   or young adult, and that the independent living program is the least
   restrictive, most home-like environment for the adolescent or young adult that
   is clinically appropriate. In making its determination, the contracting entity
   shall consider:
   
   
   
   (a)	Whether the adolescent or young adult&#8217;s level of life skills,
   knowledge and training are appropriate for the independent living program;
   
   
   
   (b)	Whether the services and environment provided by the independent living
   program are appropriate for the adolescent or young adult&#8217;s needs;
   
   
   
   (c)	Whether the location of the main facility and residences are convenient
   for the adolescent or young adult&#8217;s education program and other
   services;
   
   
   
   (d)	The ages and level of development of residents currently in the
   independent living program relative to the adolescent or young adult&#8217;s
   age and level of development;
   
   
   
   (e)	The mental, physical, or emotional condition of the residents currently in
   the independent living program relative to that of the adolescent or young
   adult; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The adolescent or young adult&#8217;s health needs relative to the
   capabilities of the independent living program to meet such needs.

   6339.6. Prior to accepting an adolescent or young adult into an independent
   living program, the program shall provide the resident with:
   
   
   
   (a)	A tour of the main facility;
   
   
   
   (b)	If the adolescent or young adult would reside in the main facility, a tour
   of the particular residence in which he or she would reside, or, if the
   adolescent or young adult would not reside in the main facility, a tour of a
   residence similar in location and layout to the one in which he or she would
   reside;
   
   
   
   (c)	An introduction to and the opportunity to speak with staff and residents;
   
   
   
   (d)	An explanation of the independent living program&#8217;s plans, policies
   and procedures listed in ยง 6307.2(1);
   
   
   
   (e)	An explanation of the services provided by the independent living program
   and the community resources available to residents; and
   
   
   
   (f)	An explanation of the independent living program&#8217;s expectations of
   its residents, addressing goals, expected behavior, and residents&#8217;
   rights and responsibilities.

   6339.7. An independent living program shall provide staff with information to
   facilitate the resident&#8217;s placement, including but not limited to the
   reason for placement, the resident&#8217;s medical condition and any
   medications, allergies, behavioral issues, and necessary instructions related
   to the resident&#8217;s individual needs.

   6339.8. To the greatest extent practicable, the resident&#8217;s arrival at
   the independent living program shall be timed so as to cause the least
   distress to the resident and the least disruption to the staff and other
   residents.

   6339.9. An independent living program shall maintain an admissions log that
   includes the name and date of birth of each resident, the date of admission,
   and the date of discharge or transfer.

   6339.10. Within twenty-four (24) hours of a resident&#8217;s admission, an
   independent living program shall identify all emergency medical and mental
   health needs, allergies, basic needs, and non-emergency medical and mental
   health conditions and physical infirmities, including all visible signs of
   illness or injury, and document this information in the resident&#8217;s case
   record, along with documentation of a pre-admission medical screen.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 1591 (February 22, 2002).
