                                  DC REGULATIONS

BEHAVIOR MANAGEMENT AND DISCIPLINE (ยง 29-6347)

6347.1. An independent living program shall establish behavior management
   strategies to provide rewards and praise for appropriate behavior as well as
   negative consequences for inappropriate behavior. Behavior management
   strategies may include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	A points or token economy system in which points or tokens are used to
   purchase privileges;
   
   
   
   (b)	A written contract between the independent living program and the resident
   setting forth its requirements in clear and understandable language to help
   the resident acquire self-discipline; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Provision of an allowance or withholding of an allowance, in accordance
   with ยง 6347.5.

   6347.2. Discipline may not be arbitrary or capricious and shall be consistent
   among residents.

   6347.3. An independent living program may not administer any form of
   restraint.

   6347.4. An independent living program may not use forms of behavior management
   or discipline that involve cruel, severe, or humiliating actions, including,
   but not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Corporal punishment;
   
   
   
   (b)	Physical exercise;
   
   
   
   (c)	Requiring or forcing a resident to maintain an uncomfortable physical
   position, or requiring or forcing a resident to repeat physical movements;
   
   
   
   (d)	Group discipline for the behavior of fewer than all residents;
   
   
   
   (e)	Verbal abuse, ridicule, or humiliation;
   
   
   
   (f)	Denial of social, mental health, educational, or casework services;
   
   
   
   (g)	Deprivation of any meal;
   
   
   
   (h)	Use or denial of any medication;
   
   
   
   (i)	Denial of visitation, mail, or telephone contact with a resident&#8217;s
   family, attorney, or guardian ad litem;
   
   
   
   (j)	Denial of sleep;
   
   
   
   (k)	Requiring the resident to remain silent for long periods of time;
   
   
   
   (l)	Deprivation of civil rights provided by law, including, where applicable,
   the right to privacy, the right to freedom of association, the right to vote,
   the right to practice or not practice religion or faith of choice, the right
   to be free from unreasonable search and seizure, the right to be free from
   sexual harassment, and the right to be free from discrimination, including the
   right to equal access to services regardless of race, religion, ethnicity,
   sexual orientation, disability, or gender;
   
   
   
   (m)	The denial of shelter, clothing, bedding, restroom facilities, or other
   essential personal needs;
   
   
   
   (n)	The withholding of any part of the resident&#8217;s current or future
   stipend or an allowance already paid or due to be paid;
   
   
   
   (o)	Locked isolation;
   
   
   
   (p)	Organized social ostracism, including but not limited to codes of silence;
   
   
   
   (q)	Separation from other residents for more than thirty (30) minutes within
   any twenty-four (24) hour period;
   
   
   
   (r)	Continuing discipline when signs of severe emotional distress are
   apparent; and
   
   
   
   (s)	Barring the resident from entry into the main facility or her or his
   residence, locking a resident out of the main facility or her or his
   residence, or expulsion of the resident from the independent living program.

   6347.5. Approved forms of discipline include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	The elimination or withholding of an allowance provided by the independent
   living program but not yet paid or due to be paid;
   
   
   
   (b)	Requiring the resident to prepare a written report about the behavior,
   including the lessons learned, the appropriate ways in which the resident
   could respond if the situation were to arise again, and the way in which the
   resident would respond if the situation were to arise again;
   
   
   
   (c)	The prohibition against attendance at or participation in planned
   activities; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The prohibition against the use of entertainment devices, including but
   not limited to televisions, radios, and computers.

   6347.6. An independent living program shall develop and follow written
   policies and procedures regarding the behavior management and discipline of
   residents, including but not limited to the:
   
   
   
   (a)	Reasonable discipline that may be administered for violating those rules,
   which shall relate and be proportionate to the unacceptable behavior, and
   reflect the nature of real world experiences, as appropriate to the
   resident&#8217;s age and level of development;
   
   
   
   (b)	Resident&#8217;s right to file a grievance concerning a disciplinary
   decision; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The elimination or withholding of an allowance.

   6347.7. Only staff receiving specific training in acceptable methods of
   discipline shall utilize discipline.

   6347.8. An independent living program shall inform the resident of the nature
   of and the reason for the discipline prior to administering the discipline.

   6347.9. An independent living program shall administer discipline as soon as
   practicable after the behavior occurs and after allowing the resident to
   explain his or her behavior.

   6347.10. An independent living program shall document the following in the
   resident&#8217;s case record whenever disciplinary action is taken:
   
   
   
   (a)	The nature and date of the behavior warranting discipline;
   
   
   
   (b)	The type of discipline administered;
   
   
   
   (c)	The date the discipline was administered;
   
   
   
   (d)	The name and title of the person who administered the discipline;
   
   
   
   (e)	The resident&#8217;s response to the discipline; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Any grievance and the outcome of the grievance.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 1591 (February 22, 2002).
