                                  DC REGULATIONS

RESIDENCE PHYSICAL PLANT REQUIREMENTS (§ 29-6328)

6328.1. A resident shall reside only in a residence that meets the
   requirements of § 6328.

   6328.2. An independent living program may operate only a main facility, both a
   main facility and residences, or only residences.

   6328.3. A main facility and each residence shall have a certificate of
   occupancy issued by the appropriate authority in the jurisdiction, to the
   extent required by law.

   6328.4. An independent living program may not place a resident in a residence
   in violation of the certificate of occupancy.

   6328.5. A main facility and each residence shall comply with all local and
   federal laws, including but not limited to laws relating to building and fire
   codes, electrical, lead paint standards, and asbestos.

   6228.6. A main facility shall maintain a working fire extinguisher, subject to
   annual inspection, for each cooking area and wing of the main facility, and
   all areas used for electrical, gas, or other heating equipment.

   6328.7. Except as provided in § 6328.8, a residence shall have the following
   rooms or areas:
   
   
   
   (a)	A kitchen containing a working refrigerator, oven, stove, sink with hot
   and cold running water, and fire extinguisher;
   
   
   
   (b)	A bathroom in a separate room with a locking door that:
   
   
   
   (1)	Has a working sink with hot and cold running water, bathtub or shower with
   hot and cold running water, flush toilet, and mirror secured to the wall at a
   convenient height;
   
   
   
   (2)	Is maintained in good repair, in clean condition, and in accordance with
   applicable laws and housing codes; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Is situated so as to allow direct access without the necessity of passing
   through a bedroom, except when a bedroom has an attached bathroom used only
   for the resident(s) who reside in that bedroom; and
   
   
   
   (c)	At least one (1) bedroom for every two (2) residents that shall have:
   
   
   
   (1)	A locking door separating the bedroom from the rest of the residence;
   
   
   
   (2)	Direct outside ventilation;
   
   
   
   (3)	At least one (1) operable window with a source of natural light;
   
   
   
   (4)	A mechanical light;
   
   
   
   (5)	At least seventy (70) square feet of space for a single bedroom and at
   least sixty (60) square feet per person in a bedroom for two (2) residents;
   and
   
   
   
   (6)	Appropriate individual furniture, and an individual closet or a designated
   section of a closet with clothes racks and shelves in or near the bedroom.

   6328.8. A residence may be an efficiency apartment provided that the
   apartment:
   
   
   
   (a)	Includes a kitchen area containing the items set forth in § 6328.7(a);
   
   
   
   (b)	Includes a bathroom in a separate room with a locking door and containing
   the items set forth in § 6328.7(b); and
   
   
   
   (c)	Houses no more than one resident, which may be a teen parent and one
   child.

   6328.9. A residence shall maintain at least one working smoke detector on each
   floor and at least one additional smoke detector for each bedroom area not
   connected by a common hallway.

   6328.10. A residence shall be equipped with at least one working carbon
   monoxide detector on each floor and at least one additional carbon monoxide
   detector for each bedroom not connected by a common hallway.

   6328.11. The building in which a main facility or residence is located shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be maintained in a sanitary, comfortable, and safe condition, free from
   rodent and insect infestation, and in accordance with applicable law;
   
   
   
   (b)	Maintain its grounds in a sanitary, comfortable, and safe condition, free
   from rodent and insect infestation, and in accordance with applicable law;
   
   
   
   (c)	Maintain the building trash outside the building in secure,
   non-combustible, covered receptacles that prevent the penetration of insects
   and rodents; and that are separate from play areas and located so as to avoid
   being a nuisance to neighbors;
   
   
   
   (d)	Remove trash from the premises at least once a week;
   
   
   
   (e)	Provide heat during winter months of between sixty-eight (68) and
   seventy-two (72) degrees Fahrenheit, except that the residence may maintain a
   temperature of no lower than sixty-five (65) degrees Fahrenheit during
   sleeping hours, and meet all applicable laws concerning the heating and
   cooling systems;
   
   
   
   (f)	Provide water that meets all applicable laws; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Meet all applicable laws concerning lighting.

   6328.12. A residence shall have laundry facilities on the premises, be located
   within walking distance of laundry facilities, or provide at least weekly
   transportation to laundry facilities.

   6328.13. A residence shall have security devices including a charlie bar on
   all patio doors and locks, dead bolts, and safety chains on all doors. If a
   residence does not have such locks, the independent living program shall
   provide for their installation.

   6328.14. An independent living program shall maintain in a secure location
   keys to all locks in each residence.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 1591 (February 22, 2002).
