                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES (ยง 17-6307)

6307.1. The Board may, in its discretion, approve continuing education
   programs and activities that contribute to the growth of an applicant in
   professional competence in the practice of occupational therapy and which meet
   the other requirements of this section.
   
   
   
   6307.2 	The Board shall approve continuing education programs and activities
   that 		are relevant to the practice or education of occupational therapists
   and 			occupational therapy assistants that document the following:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Current subject matter with course description;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Content focus;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Learning outcomes;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Target audience;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Satisfactory completion of the course by the course participant; and
   
   
   
   (f) 	The number of contact hours or continuing education units.
   
   
   
   6307.3 	The Board shall approve the following types of activities provided
   that 			they are consistent with provisions of these regulations:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Activities sponsored by the state or local occupational therapy
   organizations;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Activities sponsored by the American Occupational Therapy Association
   (AOTA), the American Physical Therapy Association (APTA), the American
   Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA), and the American Society of Hand
   Therapists (ASHT);
   
   
   
   (c) 	Activities sponsored by AOTA approved providers;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Activities sponsored by an accredited healthcare facility; or
   
   
   
   (e) 	Activities sponsored by an accredited college or university.

   6307.4. The Board may issue an update to a list of approved continuing
   competence programs.

   6307.5. Any course or activity that does not meet the licensing requirements
   of ยง 6307.3 shall not be approved by the Board unless the license had prior
   approval from the Board, at least thirty (30) days before the course.

   6307.6. The Board may approve the following continuing competence activities
   by an applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Serving as an instructor or speaker at a conference;
   
   
   
   (b)	Serving as an instructor at a seminar, workshop, or in-service training;
   
   
   
   (c)	Serving as a clinical instructor for students of occupational therapy; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Participation in research as a principal investigator or research
   assistant.
   
   
   
   6307.7 	The licensee shall be responsible for explaining to the Board why
   				supervisory activities, professional volunteer activities, or serving as
   an 			instructor, speaker, publisher or editor are eligible for credit.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 938, 941 (February 12, 1988); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 4551 (June 9, 2006); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 3133, 3136 (April
   20, 2012).
