                                  DC REGULATIONS

RE-LICENSURE (ยง 17-6313)

6313.1 	An occupational therapy assistant shall exercise reasonable judgment
   and provide 			adequate care in the performance of duties in accordance with
   nationally 				recognized standards of practice.

   6313.2. An occupational therapy assistant may only practice under the general
   supervision 		of a licensed occupational therapist who is authorized to
   practice in the District of 			Columbia. The occupational therapist must be
   available on an as-needed basis and 		must be available to be on-site in the
   event of a clinical incident within two (2) 			hours.
   
   
   
   6313.3 	An occupational therapist shall provide the following:
   
   
   
   		(a) 	Direct supervision of an occupational therapy assistant prior to
   initiating
   
   			treatment programs and before planned discharges for patients;
   
   
   
   		(b) 	An initial and, at a minimum, bimonthly direction to the occupational
   				therapy assistant; and
   
   
   
   		(c) 	Documentation for verification of supervision and direction.
   
   
   
   6313.4 	A supervising occupational therapist shall delegate duties and
   responsibilities for 			the care of patients to the occupational therapy
   assistant with consideration given
   
   to the following:
   
   
   
   		(a) 	The level of skill shown by the occupational therapy assistant;
   
   
   
   		(b) 	The ability to use identified intervention in a safe and effective
   manner;
   
   
   
   		(c) 	Experience of the occupational therapy assistant and work setting
   demands; 			and
   
   
   
   		(d) 	The complexity and stability of the patient population to be treated.
   
   
   
   6313.5 	An occupational therapy assistant shall assist in the collection and
   some of the documentation of patient information pertaining to the evaluation
   and treatment of a patient. The extent of this involvement shall be based on
   the demonstrated competency of the occupational therapy assistant. This
   demonstrated competency shall be documented and maintained on file by the
   supervising occupational therapist.
   
   
   
    6313.6 	An occupational therapy assistant shall not supervise another
   occupational therapy assistant.
   
   
   
   6313.7 	An occupational therapy assistant shall immediately inform the
   supervising occupational therapist and discontinue treatment if the procedure
   appears to be harmful to the patient.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: A Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 3133, 3141 (April
   20, 2012).
