                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTINUING EDUCATION CREDITS (ยง 17-6308)

6308.1. The Board may grant continuing education credit for whole hours only,
   with a minimum of fifty (50) minutes constituting one (1) credit hour.

   6308.2. For approved undergraduate or graduate courses, each semester hour of
   credit shall constitute fifteen (15) hours of continuing education credit, and
   each quarter hour of credit shall constitute ten (10) hours of continuing
   education credit.

   6308.3. The Board may grant a maximum of three (3) continuing education
   credits per year to an applicant who attends in-service education programs.

   6308.4. The Board may grant continuing competence credit to an applicant who
   serves as an author of a self-study article or series or an instructor or
   speaker at a program or for preparation and presentation time of an academic
   course, peer-reviewed or non peer-reviewed workshop, seminar, in-service,
   electronic or web-based course subject to the following restrictions:
   
   
   
   (a)	The maximum amount of credit which may be granted for preparation time is
   twice the amount of the associated presentation time or twice the amount of
   contact hours awarded for participants;
   
   
   
   (b)	The maximum amount of credit which may be granted pursuant to this
   subsection is fifty percent (50%) of an applicant&#8217;s continuing education
   requirement;
   
   
   
   (c)	If an applicant had previously received credit in connection with a
   particular presentation, the Board shall not grant credit in connection with a
   subsequent presentation unless it involves either a different or a
   substantially modified program; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The presentation shall have been completed during the period for which
   credit is claimed and includes documentation of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A copy of the official program or syllabus;
   
   
   
   (2)	The presentation title;
   
   
   
   (3)	The date of the presentation;
   
   
   
   (4)	The hours of the presentation;
   
   
   
   (5)	The type of audience addressed; and
   
   
   
   (6)	A verification of attendance signed by the sponsor.

   6308.5. The Board may grant an applicant who is an author or editor of a
   published book, a published chapter in a book, or a published article in a
   professional journal or other nationally recognized publication six (6)
   continuing education credits, if the book, chapter, or article was published
   or accepted for publication during the period for which credit is claimed, and
   the applicant submits proof of this fact in the application.

   6308.6. The Board may grant an applicant for renewal who acts as a clinical
   instructor for students of occupational therapy or students of any other
   health occupation one (1) continuing education credit for each hour of
   clinical instruction, up to a maximum of four (4) continuing education credit
   per year.
   
   
   
   6308.7 	The Board may grant an applicant for renewal up to six (6) contact
   hours 			for the 	renewal period, for participation as a primary clinical
   fieldwork 			educator for Level II occupational therapy or occupational
   therapy 				assistant fieldwork students with the following documentation:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Name of student as verified by the school;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Name of the school;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Dates of the fieldwork; and
   
   
   
   (d) 	Signature page of student evaluation excluding evaluation scores and
   comments on student.
   
   
   
   6308.8 	The Board may grant an applicant for renewal up to six (6) contact
   hours 			for the 	renewal period for serving as a supervisor for an
   occupational 			therapist or occupational therapy assistant who is in the
   process of 				reactivating his or her 	license. The supervisor shall provide
   the Board with 		a supervised practice letter.

   6308.9. The Board may grant an applicant for renewal who successfully
   completes a course on management which is directly related to occupational
   therapy three (3) continuing education credits.

   6308.10. The Board may grant continuing education credit to an applicant for
   renewal who participates in Board or committee work with agencies or
   organizations in professionally related areas to promote and enhance the
   practice of occupational therapy up to three (3) contact hours for one year of
   involvement for a minimum of eighteen (18) hours. The applicant shall provide
   the following documentation:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name of the committee, board, agency or organization;
   
   
   
   (b)	Purpose for service;
   
   
   
   (c)	Description of duties and roles; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Validation of service by an officer or representative of the organization.

   6308.11. The Board may grant an applicant for renewal who is able to
   demonstrate participation in research, either as a principal investigator or
   as a research assistant, six (6) continuing competence credits.

   6308.12. The Board may request proof of a licensee&#8217;s completion of
   continuing competence activities at the completion of a renewal period. A
   licensee shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Maintain the required proof of completion for each continuing competence
   activity as specified in these regulations; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Retain documentation of continuing competence activity for a minimum of
   two (2) years following the last day of the license renewal period for which
   the continuing competence activities were earned.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 937, 942 (February 12, 1988); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 4551 (June 9, 2006); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 3133, 3137 (April
   20, 2012).
