                                  DC REGULATIONS

TRANSFERS OF CONTROLLING INTERESTS (ยง 9-517)

517.1. A transfer of an economic interest shall occur upon the conveyance of a
   controlling interest of any legal, equitable, beneficial or other ownership
   interest in the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The shares of stock in a corporation;
   
   
   
   (b)	A partnership, association or other unincorporated entity; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A trust.

   517.2. For the purposes of this chapter, a controlling interest in the case of
   a corporation means:
   
   
   
   (a)	More than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of all
   classes of stock of the corporation; or
   
   
   
   (b)	More than fifty percent (50%) of the total fair market value of all
   classes of stock of the corporation.

   517.3. For the purposes of this chapter, a controlling interest in the case of
   a partnership, association, trust or other entity means more than fifty
   percent (50%) of the napital, profits or beneficial interests in the
   partnership, association, trust or other entity.

   517.4. A controlling interest may be transferred by conveyance, vesting,
   granting, bargaining, sale, or assignment.

   517.5. A conveyance may include any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Surrender;
   
   
   
   (b)	Mortgage or deed of trust;
   
   
   
   (c)	The contribution of an interest in an entity to a trust;
   
   
   
   (d)	Liquidations;
   
   
   
   (e)	The withdrawal or addition of a member of a partnership, association or
   other unincorporated entity; or
   
   (f)	Any other transaction in which a beneficial interest is transferred.
   
   
   
   Example (1): X corporation owns real property located in the District of
   Columbia, the value of which comprises more than eighty percent (80%) of the
   value of its entire tangible asset holdings. A, B, and C each own one-third
   (1/3) interests of X corporation stock. A buys B and C&#8217;s interests to
   acquire a one hundred percent (100%) interest in X corporation. As purchase of
   B and C&#8217;s interests must be recorded and is subject to the recordation
   tax.
   
   
   
   Example (2): A and B are equal partners in a partnership. Over a twelve (12)
   month period the partnership adds eight (8) new equal partners. Partners C and
   D are admitted on January 1st, Partner E is admitted on March 1st and Partners
   F through J are admitted on May 1st. The addition of the third new partner, E,
   has the effect in the aggregate of transferring more than fifty percent (50%)
   of the total ownership interest in the partnership. The admission of partner E
   is a transfer of a controlling interest. However, a new twelve (12) month
   period starts whenever the tax is triggered (March 1st in our example) and the
   percentages of ownership acquired by the first, second and third new partners
   will not be considered or aggregated with the percentages acquired by the
   fourth or subsequent new partners.

   517.6. Transfers of controlling interests may include transfers of interests
   in entities related to the entity owning the real property located in the
   District, including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Entities that are partners and shareholders of the entity owning the real
   property;
   
   
   
   (b)	Entities that are beneficiaries of the entity owning the real property;
   
   
   
   (c)	Entities that derive, directly or indirectly, any portion of their
   receipts from ownership of the entity owning the real property; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Entities that hold as an asset any legal, equitable, beneficial or other
   ownership interest, whether directly or indirectly, of the entity owning the
   real property.
   
   
   
   Example: Corporation A is a holding company whose sole asset is one hundred
   percent (100%) of the stock of Corporation B. Corporation B owns real property
   located in the District, the value of which comprises more than eighty percent
   (80%) of its entire tangible asset holdings. The transfer of a controlling
   interest in Corporation A is subject to the recordation tax.

   517.7. Ownership of notes or other receivables secured by interests in real
   property shall not result in the characterization of an entity as an entity
   with an interest in real property for purposes of this Act.
   
   
   
   Example: X corporation holds notes or other receivables secured by real
   property located in the District. X holds no other interest in real property.
   The transfer of fifty-one percent (51%) of X corporation stock shall not be
   subject to tax.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 8653, 8655 (December 29, 1989).
