                                  DC REGULATIONS

UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE (UCC) ARTICLE 9 FILINGS (ยง 9-513)

513.1. Scope
   
   These regulations are to document filing procedures for Uniform Commercial
   Code filings pursuant to D.C. Law 13-201 effective immediately.

   513.2. Place to File
   
   A financing statement to perfect a security interest shall be filed with the
   Recorder of Deeds, Located at 515 D Street, NW, Washington, DC 20002.

   513.3. Filing Office Identification
   
   In addition to the promulgation of these rules, the Recorder of Deeds shall
   disseminate information on its location, mailing address, telephone numbers at
   the Office of Tax and Revenue Internet site. The filing office offers on-line
   information at the agency&#8217;s web site. Additionally, electronic filing of
   UCC documents is available.

   513.4. Office Hours
   
   Although the Recorder of Deeds maintains regular office hours (8:30am-4:00pm),
   it receives transmissions electronically 24 hours per day, 365 days per year,
   except for scheduled maintenance and unscheduled interruptions of service.
   Electronic communications may be retrieved and processed periodically (but no
   less often than once each day the filing office is open for business) on a
   batch basis.

   513.5. UCC Document Delivery
   
   UCC documents may be tendered for filing at the Recorder of Deeds-located at
   515 D Street, NW, Washington, DC 20002.
   
   
   
   (a)	Electronic filing: UCC documents may be submitted electronically via the
   agency&#8217;s online services portal. The filing time for a UCC document
   delivered by this method is the time that the filing office&#8217;s system
   analyzes the relevant transmission and determines that all the required
   elements of the transmission have been received in a required format and are
   machine-readable.
   
   
   
   (b)	Personal delivery: The file time for a UCC document delivered by this
   method is effective from the date and time of recording provided the record
   satisfies the requirements for a financing statement in this section.
   
   
   
   (c)	Courier delivery: The filing time for a UCC document delivered by this
   method is, notwithstanding the time of delivery, the date and time of
   recording provided the record satisfies the requirements for a financing
   statement in this section. A UCC document delivered after the close of
   business as described in section 513.4 (Office Hours) or on a day the
   recording office is not open for business will have filing time of the close
   of business on the next day the recording office is open for business.
   
   
   
   (d)	Postal service delivery: The file time for a UCC document delivered by
   this method is the next close of business day following the time of delivery
   provided the record satisfies the requirements for a financing statement in
   this section. A UCC document delivered after the close of business as
   described in section 513.4 (Office Hours) or on a day the filing office is not
   open for business will have a recording time of the close of business on the
   next day the recording office is open for business.

   513.6. Filing Fees
   
   9 DCMR ยง 336.2(b) sets basic fees for filing and indexing initial financing
   statements and other related documents for both, paper or electronic filings.
   These documents include, but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   Security Agreements (chattels)
   
   
   
   Financing Statements
   
   
   
   Continuation Statements
   
   
   
   Termination Statements
   
   
   
   Assignment of Financing Statements
   
   
   
   Partial Release of Financing Statements
   
   
   
   Release of Financing Statements
   
   
   
   Statements of Release
   
   
   
   Amendments, re-recordings and corrections to security, financing,
   continuation, termination, assignments, and release statements

   513.7. Method of Payments-Filing fees and fees for public records services may
   be paid by the following methods:
   
   
   
   (a)	Cash &#8211; The Recorder of Deeds discourages cash payment unless made in
   person to the cashier at the filing office;
   
   
   
   (b)	Checks &#8211; Checks made payable to the D.C. Treasurer will be accepted
   for payment;
   
   
   
   (c)	Credit Cards &#8211; The Recorder of Deeds accepts payments using credit
   cards.
   
   
   
   Filing parties shall provide the recording office agent with the card number,
   expiration date of the card, the name of the card issuer, the name of the
   person or entity to whom the card was issued and the billing address for the
   card. Payments will not be deemed tendered until the issuer or its agent has
   confirmed to the recording office or its agent that payment will be forth
   coming.

   513.8. The Duties and Responsibilities of the Recording Office with respect to
   the administration of the UCC are ministerial &#8211; In accepting for filing
   or refusing to file a UCC document pursuant to these rules, the filing office
   does not determine the legal sufficiency or insufficiency of a document;
   Determine whether or not a security interest in collateral exists; Determine
   that information in the document is correct or incorrect, in whole or in part.

   513.9. Grounds for Refusal of UCC Documents &#8211; The grounds for refusal by
   the filing office are set forth in Revised UCC Section 28: 9-516(b).

   513.10. Time Limit &#8211; The recording office shall determine whether
   criteria exist to refuse acceptance of any UCC Article 9 document recording
   not later than the second business day after the date the document would have
   been filed had it been accepted for filing and shall index a UCC document not
   so refused within the same time period.

   513.11. Procedure Upon Refusal &#8211; If the recording office finds grounds
   under the rules to refuse acceptance of a UCC document, the filing office
   shall return the document to the filing party. The recording office shall send
   a notice that contains the date and time the document would have been filed
   had it been accepted for filing and a brief description of the reason for
   refusal to accept the document under the rules. The notice shall be sent to a
   secured party or the filing party no later than the second (2nd) business day
   after the determination to refuse acceptance of the document. A refund may be
   delivered with the notice or under separate cover.

   513.12. Recorder of Deeds Discretion &#8211; The Recorder of Deeds shall have
   the discretionary authority to refuse to file a document which is determined
   to be in non-compliance under DC Law 13-201 Section 28: 9-502.

   513.13. UCC Information Management System &#8211; The recording office uses an
   automated information management system to store, index, and retrieve
   information relating to financing statements. The information management
   system includes an index of the names of debtors and secured parties. The
   rules in this subsection describe the UCC information management system.

   513.14. Primary Data Elements &#8211; The primary elements used in the UCC
   information system are the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Each initial financing statement is identified by its file number.
   Identification of the initial financing statement is applied to written UCC
   documents or otherwise permanently associated with the record maintained for
   UCC documents in the UCC information management system.
   
   
   
   A record is created in the information management system for each initial
   financing statement and all information comprising such record is maintained
   in such system. A UCC record other than an initial financing statement is
   identified by a unique acknowledgment number assigned by the recording office.
   In the information system, records of all UCC documents other than initial
   financing statements are linked to the record of their related initial
   financing statement.
   
   
   
   (b)	Type of document &#8211; The type of document from which data is
   transferred is identified in the information management system from
   information supplied by the remitter.
   
   
   
   (c)	Filing date and time &#8211; The filing date and time of UCC documents are
   stored in the information management system.
   
   
   
   (d)	Identification of parties &#8211; The names of debtors and secured parties
   are transferred from UCC documents to the information management system using
   one or more data entry or transmittal techniques.
   
   
   
   (e)	Status of financing statement &#8211; In the information management
   system, each financing statement has a status of active unless designated
   terminated or lapsed.
   
   
   
   (f)	Page count &#8211; The total number of pages in a UCC record is maintained
   in the information management system.

   513.15. Individual Debtors &#8211; For the purpose of this rule
   &#8220;individual&#8221; means a human being, or a decedent in the case of a
   debtor that is such decedent&#8217;s estate. This rule applies to the name of
   a debtor or a secured party on a UCC document who is an individual.
   
   
   
   (a)	Individual name fields &#8211; The names of individuals are stored in
   fields that include only names of individuals, and not the names of
   organizations. Separate data entry fields are established for first, middle
   and last names. The filing officer assumes no responsibility for the accurate
   designation of the components of a name but will accurately enter the data in
   accordance with the filer&#8217;s designation.
   
   
   
   (b)	Titles and prefixes &#8211; Title and Prefixes, such as
   &#8220;Doctors&#8221;, &#8220;Reverend,&#8221; &#8220;Mr.,&#8221; and
   &#8220;Mrs.,&#8221; should not be entered in the UCC information system.
   
   
   
   (c)	Title and suffixes after names &#8211; Title, suffixes or indications of
   status such as &#8220;M.D.&#8221; and &#8220;Esquire&#8221; and &#8220;Senior,
   Junior, III, ect.&#8221; Shall not be entered in the UCC information
   management system.
   
   
   
   (d)	Truncation Individual names &#8211; Personal names fields in the UCC
   database are fixed in length. Filers should provide full names on their UCC
   documents. A name that exceeds the fixed length is indexed as presented to the
   recording office up to 50 characters &#8211; the maximum length of the data
   entry field, and the filing party should check each name field after filing to
   assure that it is indexed roperly.

   513.16. Organization Debtors &#8211; This subsection applies to the name of an
   organizational debtor or a secured party on a UCC document.
   
   
   
   (a)	Single field &#8211; The names of organizations are stored in fields that
   include only the names of organizations and not names of individuals.
   
   
   
   (b)	Truncation Organization names &#8211; The organization name field in the
   UCC database is fixed in length. Filing parties should provide full names on
   their UCC documents and should check each name field after recording to assure
   that it is indexed properly. The maximum length is 50 characters. A name that
   exceeds the fixed length is entered as presented to the recording officer.

   513.17. Processing and Data Entry Procedures &#8211; This section contains a
   description of the indexing procedure and correspondence procedures followed
   by the recording office prior to archiving a UCC document or returning the UCC
   document to the filing party.
   
   
   
   (a)	Date and Time stamp &#8211; The date and time of receipt are noted on the
   document or otherwise permanently associated with the record maintained for a
   UCC document in the UCC information management system at the earliest possible
   time.
   
   
   
   (b)	Cash management &#8211; Transactions necessary for payment for the filing
   fee are performed.
   
   
   
   (c)	Document review &#8211; The recording office determines whether a basis
   exist to refuse the document under (D.C. Code ยง 28.9-101 et seq.)
   
   
   
   (d)	File stamp &#8211; If there is no ground for refusal of the document, the
   document is deemed filed, with a unique document number and the file time and
   date. All such information is permanently associated with the record
   maintained in the UCC information management system.
   
   
   
   (e)	Lapse date and time &#8211; A lapse date is calculated for each initial
   financing statement. The lapse date is the same date of the same month as the
   filing date in the fifth year after the filing date or relevant subsequent
   fifth anniversary thereof if timely continuation statement is filed. The lapse
   takes effect at midnight at the end of the lapse a date. The relevant
   anniversary for a February filing date shall be the March 1 in the fifth year
   following the year of the filing date.
   
   
   
   (f)	Errors of the Filing Office &#8211; The recording office may correct the
   errors of the recording office personnel in the UCC information management
   system at any time. If the correction is made after the filing office has
   issued a certification date that indicates the recording date of a corrected
   document, the filing office shall proceed as follows. A record relating to the
   relevant initial financing statement will be placed in the UCC information
   management system stating the date of correction and explaining the nature of
   the corrective action taken. The record shall be preserved for so long as the
   record of the initial financing statement is preserved in the UCC information
   management system.
   
   
   
   (g)	Errors Other than Filing Office Errors &#8211; An error by a filing party
   is the responsibility of such filing party. It can be corrected by filing an
   amendment.

   513.18. Initial Financing Statement &#8211; A new record is opened in the UCC
   information management system for each initial financing statement that bears
   the file number of the financing statement and the date and time of filing
   
   
   
   (a)	The name and address of each secured party set forth in the financing
   statement are entered into the record of the financing statement.
   
   
   
   (b)	The record is indexed according to the name of the debtor(s) and is
   maintained for public inspection.
   
   
   
   (c)	A lapse date is established for the financing statement, unless the
   initial financing statement indicates it is filed against a transmitting
   utility, and the lapse date is maintained as part of the record.

   513.19. Amendment &#8211; A record that bears the acknowledgment number for
   the amendment and the date and time of filing is created for the amendment.
   
   
   
   (a)	The record of the amendment is associated with the record of the related
   initial financing statement in a manner that causes the amendment to be
   retrievable each time a record of the financing statement is retrieved.
   
   
   
   (b)	The name of the debtor and the name and address of each secured party are
   entered into the UCC information management system in the record of the
   financing statement. Each such additional debtor name is added to the
   searchable index and is not removed from the information management system of
   the recording office even after the financing statement lapses. An amendment
   that changes a debtor&#8217;s name is cross-indexed in the UCC information
   management system so that a search under either the debtor&#8217;s old name or
   debtor&#8217;s new name will reveal the initial financing statement and such
   related UCC records. If the amendment is a continuation, a new lapse date is
   established for the financing statement and maintained as part of its record.

   513.20. Termination statement &#8211; A termination statement shall cause the
   recording office to designate the financing statement as terminated.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 8264 (October 15, 1999); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 10046 (November 2, 2001).
