                                  DC REGULATIONS

ENTITIES SUBJECT TO THE RECORDATION OF ECONOMIC INTERESTS ACT (ยง 9-516)

516.1. Any corporation, partnership, association, trust or other
   unincorporated entity shall be subject to the recordation tax if it, during
   the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the transfer of an economic
   interest in real property located in the District:
   
   
   
   (a)	Derives more than fifty percent (50%) of its annual gross receipts from
   the ownership or disposition of real property located in the District; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Holds, on the date of the transfer of an interest, real property located
   in the District, the value of which comprises eighty percent (80%) or more of
   the value of its entire tangible asset holdings.

   516.2. In determining whether an entity derives more than fifty percent (50%)
   of its annual gross receipts from the ownership or disposition of real
   property located in the District, in transfers that are aggregated, the date
   of the most recent transfer aggregated shall govern when the twelve (12) month
   period shall end.

   516.3. Gross receipts from the ownership or disposition of real property shall
   include, but is not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Rents from real property; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Gain from the sale or other disposition of real property.

   516.4. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer shall use the fair market value of
   both the entity&#8217;s real property assets and assets other than real
   property on the date of each transfer in determining whether an entity&#8217;s
   real property located in the District comprises eighty percent (80%) or more
   of the value of its entire tangible asset holdings.
   
   
   
   Example: X corporation, a publicly-held manufacturing corporation in New York,
   owns a warehouse in Virginia valued at two hundred thousand dollars ($
   200,000), a manufacturing plant in Maryland valued at three hundred thousand
   dollars ($ 300,000), an office building in the District valued at three
   million two hundred thousand dollars ($ 3,200,000), and various equipment and
   assets valued at three hundred thousand dollars ($ 300,000). X corporation is
   subject to the tax because it holds real property in the District, the value
   of which comprises eighty percent (80%) or more of the value of its entire
   tangible asset holdings.

   516.5. In deciding whether the eighty percent (80%) test is met, the Deputy
   Chief Financial Officer may accept a determination of value of the real
   property and other assets that reasonably reflects the fair market value of
   the assets.

   516.6. If the Deputy Chief Financial Officer decides that a determination made
   pursuant to ยง 516.5 does not reasonably reflect the fair market value of the
   property, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer may disallow the determination
   and use any method that the Deputy Chief Financial Officer decides will result
   in a reasonable determination of the fair market value of the assets.

   516.7. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer may request the following items,
   among others, as the Deputy Chief Financial Officer decides is relevant to
   determine whether an entity is subject to the transfer tax:
   
   
   
   (a)	Income-Expense reports filed pursuant to D.C. Code ยง 47-821;
   
   
   
   (b)	Federal Income tax Returns (subject to confidentiality requirements
   imposed by D.C. Code ยง 47-1805.4; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Books and records of the entity.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 8653, 8654 (December 29, 1989).
