                                  DC REGULATIONS

REVOCATION OF SIDEWALK CAFE PERMITS (§ 24-308)

308.1. A Sidewalk Cafe Permit and a Certificate of Use may and can be revoked
   at any time by the Director of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs upon the
   request of the Public Space Committee or the Director, for any one (1) of the
   following reasons:
   
   
   
   (a)	There is a public need for the use of the surface space;
   
   
   
   (b)	The applicant has failed to comply with the provisions of this subtitle;
   
   
   
   (c)	The applicant has failed to make use of the surface space for a period of
   more than twelve (12) consecutive months after the Sidewalk Cafe Permit has
   been issued;
   
   
   
   (d)	The applicant has failed to comply with the terms or conditions of the
   Sidewalk Cafe Permit or the Certificate of Use;
   
   
   
   (e)	The applicant has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter or
   the provisions of the Act;
   
   
   
   (f)	The applicant has failed to complete the construction of the sidewalk cafe
   within six (6) months; or
   
   
   
   (g)	The applicant has failed to pay any and all applicable fees, including but
   not limited to, all present and past sidewalk cafe rental fees.

   308.2. The applicant may, within five (5) days of receipt of the notice of
   revocation, request a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the
   D.C. Administrative Procedure Act, approved October 21, 1968 (82 Stat. 1208,
   D.C. Code §1-1501 et seq. (1981)), as amended.

   308.3. The applicant shall remove any property placed upon the public space
   within twenty four (24) hours following the expiration of the five-day (5)
   period specified in §308.2, or on the date determined by the hearing examiner
   pursuant to the procedure set forth in §308.2.

   308.4. A person shall not operate a sidewalk cafe subsequent to the revocation
   of a Sidewalk Cafe Permit, unless a new Sidewalk Cafe Permit and a new
   Certificate of Use has been issued pursuant to this chapter.

   308.5. If a Sidewalk Cafe Permit has been revoked pursuant to §308.1(f), the
   Director of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, upon the recommendation of the
   Director, may reissue the Building Permit and the Sidewalk Cafe Permit when
   the applicant certifies that the construction will comply with the provisions
   of the initial Building Permit and the initial Sidewalk Cafe Permit, and that
   the construction will be pursued on a timely basis.

   308.6. Except as provided for in §308.2, the Director of Consumer and
   Regulatory Affairs shall restore and reissue a Sidewalk Cafe Permit and a
   Certificate of Use upon the approval of the Director and when the conditions
   that caused the revocation to be issued have been corrected.

   308.7. Any costs incurred by the Department, the Department of Consumer and
   Regulatory Affairs, and any other District agency, as determined by the
   Director and the Director of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, in connection
   with the revocation and the issuance of a new Sidewalk Cafe Permit and a new
   Certificate of Use, shall be paid by the applicant before the Sidewalk Cafe
   Permit and the Certificate of Use are restored.

   308.8. The applicant shall have no recourse against either the United States,
   the District, or any employee, officer, or agent of the United States or the
   District, for any loss or damage caused by the revocation of the Sidewalk Cafe
   Permit or the Certificate of Use.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 30 DCR 4346, 4355 (August 26, 1983).
