                                  DC REGULATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PURPOSES (HE) (§ 11-2800)

2800.1. The Hill East (HE) District is applied to Federal Reservation 13,
   which is designated for mixed use development on the Future Land use Map of
   the Comprehensive Plan and the Reservation 13 Hill East Waterfront Master
   Plan, as approved by the Council of the District of Columbia on October 15,
   2002, and is the subject of the Hill East Waterfront Design Guidelines, June
   2008.

   2800.2. Any reference to a street or a square refers to proposed streets and
   squares as depicted in Map A attached to the Office of Planning report dated
   June 1, 2007, filed in Zoning Commission Case Number 04-05, which may be
   viewed at the D.C. Office of Zoning.

   2800.3. Any reference to a street shall be deemed to include a reference to
   the Southeast (S.E.) quadrant.

   2800.4. For the purposes of this chapter the terms:
   
   
   
   (a)	“Primary street” shall mean Independence Avenue, Massachusetts Avenue,
   and Water Street; and
   
   
   
   (b)	“Secondary street” shall refer to 19th Street, 20th Street, 21st
   Street, Burke Street, C Street, and C Place.

   2800.5. The boundaries of the HE District correspond to Federal Reservation
   13, which is bounded by Independence Avenue on the north, 19th Street on the
   west, Water Street on the east, and the Congressional Cemetery on the south.

   2800.6. The HE District is divided into the following four subdistricts for
   the purpose of lot occupancy, floor area ratio ( “FAR”) and building
   height:
   
   
   
   (a)	HE-1 (19th Street) Subdistrict, which includes squares with frontage onto
   19th Street, between Independence Avenue and Massachusetts Avenue);
   
   
   
   (b)	HE-2 (20th Street) Subdistrict, which includes squares with frontage on
   20th Street;
   
   
   
   (c)	HE-3 (Water Street) Subdistrict, which includes squares with frontage on
   Water Street; and
   
   
   
   (d)	HE-4 (Corrections) Subdistrict, which includes squares N and O.

   2800.7. The purposes of the Hill East District are to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Connect and integrate Reservation 13 with adjacent neighborhoods, and the
   new waterfront park along the Anacostia River;
   
   
   
   (b)	Utilize the site to meet a diversity of public needs, including health
   care, education, employment, government services and administration, retail,
   recreation and housing;
   
   
   
   (c)	Extend the existing pattern of local streets to and through the site to
   create simple, well-organized city blocks and appropriately-scaled
   development;
   
   
   
   (d)	Maintain a human-scale of building heights that match existing
   neighborhood buildings and increase in height as the site slopes downward to
   the Anacostia waterfront;
   
   
   
   (e)	Connect the Hill East neighborhood and the city at large to the waterfront
   via tree-lined public streets, recreational trails, and increased access to
   waterfront parklands;
   
   
   
   (f)	Demonstrate environmental stewardship through environmentally-sensitive
   design, ample open spaces, and a waterfront park that serve as public
   amenities and benefit the neighborhood and the city;
   
   
   
   (g)	Promote the use of mass transit by introducing new uses near Metro
   stations, and create an environment where the pedestrian, bicycle, and auto
   are all welcome, complementary, and unobtrusive, reducing the impact of
   traffic on adjacent neighborhood streets;
   
   
   
   (h)	Limit the Central Detention Facility and the Correction Treatment Facility
   to areas south of Massachusetts Avenue; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Create attractive “places” of unique and complementary character
   including:
   
   
   
   (1)	A new, vital neighborhood center around the Metro station at C and 19th
   Streets that serves the unmet neighborhood commercial needs of the community
   and extends to the waterfront with a new residential district;
   
   
   
   (2)	Massachusetts Avenue as a grand Washington ‘boulevard’ in the
   tradition of the L’Enfant plan;
   
   
   
   (3)	A district for city-wide uses and services, such as health care,
   education, and recreation along Independence Avenue; and
   
   
   
   (4)	A grand public waterfront park incorporating monumental places and quiet
   natural retreats accessed by a meandering park drive set back from the
   Anacostia River.

   2800.8. The Hill East District shall constitute the Zoning Regulations for the
   geographic area referred to in § 2800.1. Where there are conflicts between
   this chapter and other parts of the Zoning Regulations, the provisions of the
   Hill East District shall govern.

   2800.9. Unless specifically exempted, the requirements of the HE District
   shall apply to all new buildings and to all other buildings where any
   additions, alterations, or repairs within any 12-month period exceed one
   hundred percent (100%) of the assessed value of the building as set forth in
   the records of the Office of Tax and Revenue as of the date of a building
   permit application, provided:
   
   
   
   (a)	The cost basis for alterations or additions to an existing building shall
   be the amount indicated by the applicant on the application for a building
   permit; and
   
   
   
   (b)	In the case of an addition, the requirements and incentives of this
   Chapter apply only to the addition.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking and Order No. 04-05 published at 56 DCR 6181 (August
   7, 2009); as corrected by Errata Notice published at 58 DCR 4314, 4316 (May
   20, 2011).
