                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONDUCT OF HEARINGS (ยง 17-4109)

4109.1. All hearings before a board shall be opened to the public.

   4109.2. At a hearing before a board, at least a majority of the members of the
   board shall be present to hear the evidence and render a decision.

   4109.3. A respondent entitled to a hearing shall have the following rights:
   
   
   
   (a)	The right to be represented by an attorney in accordance with ยง4106;
   
   
   
   (b)	The right to present all relevant evidence by means of witnesses and
   books, papers, and other documents;
   
   
   
   (c)	The right to examine all opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
   issues; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The right to have subpoenas issued to compel the attendance of witnesses
   and the production of relevant books, papers, and other documents upon making
   written request for subpoenas to the board.

   4109.4. A board may, in its discretion, deny any motion for a continuance, and
   shall deny a motion for a continuance unless the motion meets the following
   requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	In the opinion of the board, sets forth good cause for a continuance; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Is filed at least two (2) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, legal
   holidays, and days on which the Department is officially closed) before the
   date on which the hearing is to be held, except for extraordinary and
   unforeseen reasons, such as the sudden illness of a party or a party&#8217;s
   counsel.

   4109.5. Conflicting engagements of counsel, absence of counsel, or the
   employment of new counsel do not constitute good cause for a continuance of a
   hearing unless set forth in a motion filed promptly after notice of the
   hearing has been given.

   4109.6. After a hearing, and within time limits established by a board, the
   parties may submit proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order,
   and may also submit memoranda of law on issues of law arising during the
   hearing.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 34 DCR 5872, 5881 (September 11, 1987).
