                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADVISORY OPINIONS (§ 3-5405)

5405.1. Upon application made by an employee or public official subject to the
   Code of Conduct, the Board or the Director shall, within a reasonable period
   of time, provide an advisory opinion as to whether a specific transaction or
   activity inquired of would constitute a violation of a provision of the Code
   of Conduct over which the Board has primary jurisdiction.

   5405.2. An advisory opinion shall be published in the District of Columbia
   Register within thirty (30) days of its issuance; provided, that the identity
   of a person requesting an advisory opinion shall not be disclosed in the
   District of Columbia Register without the person’s prior consent in writing.
    Where consent is not obtained, the name of the requester shall be removed
   prior to publication.

   5405.3. If issued by the Director or an individual Board member, an advisory
   opinion may be appealed for consideration by the full Board.  There shall be
   no enforcement of a violation of the Code of Conduct taken against an employee
   or public official who relied in good faith upon an advisory opinion requested
   by that employee or public official and substantially complied with the advice
   or recommendation given in the advisory opinion; provided, that the employee
   or public official, in seeking the advisory opinion, made full and accurate
   disclosure of all relevant circumstances and information.

   5405.4. A request for an advisory opinion shall be in writing, signed by the
   requestor, and filed with the Director. The Director may accept email requests
   for advisory opinions.

   5405.5. A request for an advisory opinion shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The full name, residence address, and telephone number of the requestor;
   	and
   
   
   
   (b)	A clear and concise statement of the facts relating to the specific
   	transaction or activity which is the subject of the inquiry.

   5405.6. Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent the Director from providing
   informal advice or guidance to an employee or public official by referring
   that employee or official to a published advisory opinion or established
   guidance contained in the District’s Ethics Manual or other reference
   source.  Such informal advice or guidance need not be published in the
   District of Columbia Register and does not provide the employee with
   protections described in § 5405.3.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 747 (January 25, 2013).
