                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRELIMINARY INQUIRIES (ยง 24-2704)

2704.1. Preliminary inquiries occur where MPD receives information or an
   allegation not warranting an investigation because there is not yet
   &#8220;reasonable suspicion&#8221; of any criminal activity.

   2704.2. MPD may initiate preliminary inquiries in response to information
   indicating the possibility of any criminal activity threatening public safety
   or the security of the city.

   2704.3. Preliminary inquiries may be opened immediately, depending on the
   circumstances presented.

   2704.4. Preliminary inquiries permit MPD to respond in a measured way to
   ambiguous or incomplete information, with as little intrusion as the needs of
   the situation permit.

   2704.5. Preliminary inquiries are used when there is no complainant involved
   or when an allegation or information is received from a source of unknown
   reliability.

   2704.6. Preliminary inquiries are subject to the limitations on duration under
   Section 2704.9 and are carried out to obtain the information necessary to make
   an informed judgment as to whether a full investigation is warranted.

   2704.7. Preliminary inquiries are not required when facts or circumstances
   reasonably indicate any criminal activity that would threaten public safety or
   the security of the city. In such cases, a full investigation can be opened
   immediately pursuant to Section 2705.

   2704.8. Preliminary inquiries may be authorized by the Executive Director,
   Intelligence Fusion Division or the appropriate supervisor of similar rank,
   including the Watch Commander for the Intelligence Fusion Division (who
   possesses the same authority as the Commander). The official authorizing the
   preliminary inquiry must ensure that the allegation or other information which
   warranted the inquiry is documented and preserved.

   2704.9. Preliminary inquiries shall be completed within 60 days after
   initiation of the first investigative step. The date of the first
   investigative step is not necessarily the same date on which the first
   incoming information or allegation was received.

   2704.10. The Executive Director, Intelligence Fusion Division, or designee of
   similar rank, including the Watch Commander for the Intelligence Fusion
   Division (who possesses the same authority as the Commander), may grant an
   extension of time in an inquiry for one subsequent 60-day period. All
   extension requests shall be in writing, and shall include a statement
   describing the information already collected and demonstrating why additional
   time is required to pursue the inquiry. The action taken on any such request
   for extension shall also be recorded in writing.

   2704.11. The Chief of Police may grant an extension of time for inquiries
   requiring more than 120 days. All extension requests shall be in writing, and
   shall include a statement describing the information already collected and
   demonstrating why additional time is required to pursue the inquiry. The Chief
   of Police shall approve a preliminary inquiry under this section that is to
   remain open for more than 120 days, and shall do so in writing, stating the
   justification for the preliminary inquiry.

   2704.12. All lawful investigative techniques may be used in preliminary
   inquiries, but reasonable precautions should be taken to minimize interference
   with First Amendment activities without impairing the success of preliminary
   inquiries. Undercover officers, informants, and mail covers may be used in an
   authorized preliminary inquiry after written approval and authorization is
   obtained from the Chief of Police or designee. Mail openings and wire
   interception and interception of oral communications, as defined in D.C.
   Official Code ยง23-541 (2001), shall not be used in a preliminary inquiry.

   2704.13. Investigative techniques that may be used without prior authorization
   from a supervisor in the course of an authorized preliminary inquiry include,
   but are not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	examination of MPD indices and files, public sources of information,
   including available federal, state and local government records;
   
   
   
   (b)	interviews of complainant(s), potential subject(s), previously established
   informants, and other sources of information;
   
   
   
   (c)	interviews of persons who should readily be able to corroborate or deny
   the truth of the allegation, except this does not include pretext interviews
   or interviews of a potential subject&#8217;s employer or coworkers (unless the
   interviewee was the complainant); and
   
   
   
   (d)	physical, photographic or video surveillance provided that such
   surveillance does not require a warrant.

   2704.14. If there is an immediate threat of criminal activity, oral authority
   by the designated MPD commanding officer to use the investigative techniques
   described in 2704.12 is sufficient until a written authorization can be
   obtained; provided, that other legal requirements have been met. The required
   written authorization shall be obtained within 5 days of the occurrence of the
   emergency.

   2704.15. Preliminary inquiries failing to disclose sufficient information to
   justify a full investigation shall be terminated.

   2704.16. MPD shall record terminations of preliminary inquiries and destroy
   all information that would identify individuals associated with such
   inquiries.

   2704.17. MPD shall maintain summaries of terminated preliminary inquiries,
   omitting information that would identify individuals. Such records shall be
   maintained in the Intelligence Section consistent with MPD&#8217;s records
   retention schedule.

   2704.18. All requirements regarding preliminary inquiries shall apply to
   preliminary inquiries that have been extended pursuant to section 2704.10 or
   2704.11.

   2704.19. A MPD member may initiate a preliminary inquiry relating to a First
   Amendment assembly, for public safety reasons, without authorization, as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Members may gather public information regarding future First Amendment
   assemblies and review notices and approved assembly plans.
   
   
   
   (b)	Members may communicate overtly with the organizers of a First Amendment
   assembly concerning the number of persons expected to participate, the
   activities anticipated, and other similar information regarding the time,
   place, and manner of the assembly.
   
   
   
   (c)	Members may communicate overtly with persons other than the organizers of
   a First Amendment assembly to obtain information relating to the number of
   persons expected to participate in the assembly.
   
   
   
   (d)	Members may collect information on prior First Amendment assemblies to
   determine what police resources may be necessary to adequately protect
   participants, bystanders, and the general public, and to enforce all
   applicable laws.

   2704.20. Filming and photographing First Amendment assemblies may be conducted
   by MPD members for the purpose of documenting violations of law and police
   actions, as an aid to future coordination and deployment of police units, and
   for training purposes. Filming and photographing of First Amendment assemblies
   may not be conducted for the purpose of identifying and recording the presence
   of individual participants who are not engaged in unlawful conduct.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking Published at 55 DCR 1091 (February 1, 2008); as
   amended by Errata Published at 55 DCR 3271 (March 28, 2008).
