                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROTECTION OF PRIVACY AND OTHER LIMITATIONS (ยง 24-2708)

2708.1. The law enforcement activities authorized by these rules do not
   include maintaining files on individuals solely for the purpose of monitoring
   activities protected by the First Amendment or the lawful exercise of any
   other rights secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States. All law
   enforcement activities authorized by these rules must have a valid law
   enforcement purpose and must be carried out in conformity with all applicable
   statutes and MPD regulations and policies.

   2708.2. Section 2708.1 does not limit any activities authorized by or carried
   out under other sections of these rules. The specification of authorized law
   enforcement activities under this section is not exhaustive, and does not
   limit other authorized law enforcement activities of the MPD unrelated to
   criminal investigations or inquiries if conducted under the guise of First
   Amendment activities.

   2708.3. Nothing in these rules shall limit the general reviews or audits of
   papers, files, contracts, or other records in the possession of the MPD or the
   District of Columbia, or the performance of similar services at the specific
   request of another government agency. Such reviews, audits, or similar
   services must be for the purpose of detecting or preventing violations of law
   that are within the investigative responsibility of MPD.

   2708.4. Nothing in these rules is intended to limit the Metropolitan Police
   Department&#8217;s responsibilities to investigate certain applicants and
   employees, or to pursue efforts to satisfy any other of its legal rights,
   privileges, or obligations.

   2708.5. These rules are solely for the purpose of internal MPD, Intelligence
   Section guidance. These rules are not intended to, do not, and may not be
   relied upon to create any rights, substantive or procedural, enforceable at
   law by any party in any matter, civil or criminal, nor do they place any
   limitation on otherwise lawful investigative and litigative prerogatives of
   MPD.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking Published at 55 DCR 1091 (February 1, 2008); as
   amended by Errata Published at 55 DCR 3271 (March 28, 2008).
