                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIALTY SERVICES &#8212; STANDARDS FOR THE DEVELOPMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF
CHILDREN (§ 29-2358)

2358.1. A developmental assessment must be completed within three (3) days if
   a child of a patient is formally admitted to a substance abuse treatment
   facility or program serving parents and their children.

   2358.2. The developmental assessment is intended to provide information
   particularly related to how substance abuse has impacted or is impacting, the
   child’s social, emotional, and behavioral development, as well as how well
   the child’s physical safety and nutritional needs have been met.

   2358.3. The assessment shall result in a goal plan for the child, shall
   identify interventions directly related to the child, and shall provide
   appropriate services and information to the parent regarding parenting skills.
   Referrals shall be made when needed for early childhood intervention and
   therapeutic child development facility.

   2358.4. The following outline shall be used in the assessment of the child and
   shall be appropriate to the age of the child:
   
   
   
   (a)	Prenatal and birth history;
   
   
   
   (b)	Early childhood development;
   
   
   
   (c)	Past/recent relationship with caregivers;.
   
   
   
   (d)	Description of child;
   
   
   
   (e)	School or preschool experience;
   
   
   
   (f)	Sibling relationship;
   
   
   
   (g)	Hobbies, interests, skills;
   
   
   
   (h)	Parents’ description of child’s problems and needs;
   
   
   
   (i)	Summary and impression; and
   
   
   
   (j)	 Recommendations.

   2358.5. Professional staff eligible to complete the assessment shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	An addiction counselor with a minimum of two (2) years experience in the
   treatment and assessment of children;
   
   
   
   (b)	A social worker, nurse, psychologist or physician licensed in the District
   who has at least one (1) year experience in the assessment and treatment of
   children; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A graduate of an accredited college or university with a Masters’ degree
   in psychology, counseling, psychiatric nursing, who has two (2) years full
   time experience in the treatment and assessment of children.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7792
   (September 22, 2000).
