                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 29-2399)

Access to Recovery Program or ATR Program &#8211; The voucher program for the
provision of recovery support services under section 4a of the Choice in Drug
Treatment Act of 2000, effective July 18, 2000 (D.C. Law 13-146; D.C. Official
Code § 7-3003.01).



Act &#8211; The District of Columbia Substance Abuse Treatment and Prevention
Act of 1989 (&#8220;Act&#8221;) effective March 15, 1990 (D.C. Law 8-80; D.C.
Official Code § 44-1201 et seq.).



Admission &#8211; Entry into the substance abuse treatment facility or program
after completion of intake screening and initial assessment and a determination
that an individual is eligible for admission into a program.



Addiction counselor &#8211; A person who possesses and utilizes a unique
knowledge and skill base to assist: (i) a substance abuser, or (ii) a person or
group affected by a problem affected by substance abuse, or (iii) the public for
whom the prevention of substance abuse is a primary concern. This knowledge and
skill base may be attained through a combination of specialized training,
education, supervised work experience, and life experience.



Alcohol abuse &#8211; Any pattern of pathological use of alcohol that causes
impairment in social or occupational functioning, or that produces physiological
dependency evidenced by physical intolerance or by physical symptoms when it is
withdrawn.



Alternative housing &#8211; Arrangement or provision of safe, appropriate,
substance-free housing in the community on a long or short term basis in order
to facilitate community based substance abuse treatment and rehabilitation, to
maximize its benefits, and to maintain recovery.



Applicant &#8211; A facility or program that has applied to the Department for
certification as a substance abuse treatment facility or program.



Case management &#8211; Specific coordination activities with or on behalf of a
particular client in accordance with an individual rehabilitation plan. The aim
of the activities is to maximize the client’s adjustment and functioning
within the community while promoting sobriety and recovery promoting client
independence and responsibility, and maximizing client involvement in the
community and its support systems.



Case manager &#8211; Facility or program staff specially designated to provide
case management activities with or on behalf of a patient to maximize the
patient’s adjustment and functioning within the community while achieving
sobriety and sustaining recovery.



Certification &#8211; The process of establishing that standards of care
described in this document are met; or approval from the Department indicating
that the applicant has successfully complied with all requirements for the
operation of a substance abuse treatment facility or program in the District of
Columbia.



Chemical restraints &#8211; Drugs which are prescribed or administered in an
emergency to restrain temporarily, through the use of chemicals, a patient who
presents a likelihood of serious physical harm to self or to others.



Childcare, short-term, on-site &#8211; Support provided to a patient for the
care of a child while the patient is engaged in treatment and rehabilitation
activities deemed clinically and programmatically necessary.



Child development facility &#8211; A center, home, or other structure that
provides care and other services, supervision, and guidance for children up to
15 years of age on a regular basis, regardless of its designated name, but does
not include a public or private elementary or secondary school engaged in
legally required educational and related functions.



Clinician &#8211; A licensed or certified professional with expertise in one of
the following areas: physical medicine, addiction medicine, psychiatry, or
social work.



Codependent &#8211; A person who is a member of a family in which there is a
substance abuser receiving treatment for substance abuse.



Communicable disease &#8211; Any disease as defined in Title 22, §201 of the
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations (DCMR).



Community-based service &#8211; Service delivery conducted in accordance with
the principles of community integration and patient self-determination.



Crisis &#8211; A time, stage or event for a patient characterized by one or more
threats or losses such as loss of housing, employment, or personal support(s),
or legal or medical problems, or imminent or actual relapse.



Day(s) &#8211; Refers to calendar day unless specifically stated otherwise.



Day Treatment &#8211; A comprehensive package of services and structured
activities provided consistent with patient’s rehabilitation plan which is
designed to achieve and promote recovery from substance abuse/dependency and is
provided in a supervised substance-free facility that provides for a minimum of
five (5) visits per week for five (5) hours per day.



Department &#8211; The District of Columbia Department of Health, Addiction
Prevention and Recovery Administration.



Detoxification &#8211; A program designed to achieve systematic reduction in the
degree of physical dependence on alcohol or drugs.



Director &#8211; Director of the Department of Health and/or the Administrator
of the Addiction Prevention and Recovery Administration.



Discharge &#8211; The time when a patient’s active involvement with the
facility or program is terminated as documented in the facility or program’s
records.



Discharge planning &#8211; Activities with or on behalf of an individual to
arrange for appropriate follow-up care to sustain recovery after being
discharged from the Program, including educating the individual how to access or
reinitiate additional services, as needed.



Discrete patients &#8211; Children, accompanied by a parent into a treatment
environment, that are clinically determined to require admission as a patient
with their own separate and distinct assessment, treatment plan, course of
treatment and record, but does not include children who receive services
primarily to support a parent’s recovery.



District &#8211; The District of Columbia government.



Drug &#8211; Any chemical substance used in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation,
treatment, or prevention of disease in man or animal.



Dual Diagnosis &#8211; The presence of concurrent diagnosis of substance
abuse/dependency and a mental disease or disorder.



Facility &#8211; Any individual, public or private service provider, firm,
corporation, partnership, society or association which represents itself either
through name, advertisement, practice, or reputation to offer any service
including treatment, counseling, or rehabilitation to alcoholics, drug abusers
or drug dependent individuals. Such services may be in addition to providing
information, education, prevention, and aftercare services related to substance
abuse and addiction, but does not include providers offering only information,
education, prevention and aftercare services.



Family &#8211; Individuals who comprise a household, who may or may not be
related by marriage or ancestry.



Family therapy &#8211; Planned face-to-face, goal-oriented, therapeutic
interaction by a qualified individual with a client and/or one (1) or more
members of the client’s family in order to address and resolve the family
system’s dysfunction as it relates to the patient’s substance abuse problem
in accordance with the patient’s rehabilitation plan.



Group addiction counseling &#8211; A face-to-face, goal-oriented therapeutic
interaction among a counselor and two (2) or more patients as specified in
individual rehabilitation plans designed to promote self-understanding,
self-esteem and resolution of personal problems through personal disclosure and
interpersonal interaction among group members.



Group education &#8211; The presentation of general information and application
of the information to participants through group discussion in accordance with
individualized rehabilitation plans. The plans are designed to promote recovery
and enhance social functioning.



Individual addiction counseling &#8211; A structured, goal-oriented therapeutic
process in which a patient interacts on a face-to-face basis with a counselor in
accordance with the patient’s rehabilitation plan in order to resolve problems
related to alcohol or other drugs, or both, which interfere with the patient’s
functioning.



Individual psychotherapy services &#8211; Services designed to enhance or
improve an individual’s psychological and social functioning, improve
self-esteem and increase coping abilities in accordance with a patient’s
rehabilitation plan, where the patient interacts on a face-to-face basis with a
qualified mental health professional.



Intake screening and assessment &#8211; The process of gathering and evaluating
relevant information about an individual to determine initial admission for
rehabilitation program services and development of an initial treatment plan and
referral.



Inpatient services &#8211; Therapeutic services that are medically or
psychologically necessary and that are provided in a hospital or a non-hospital
residential facility to patients admitted to the hospital or non-hospital
residential facility.



In-service training &#8211; Activities to achieve or improve competency of
employees to perform present jobs or to prepare for other jobs or promotions.



Mayor &#8211; The Mayor of the District of Columbia.



Mechanical restraint &#8211; Any device, instrument or physical object used to
restrict an individual’s freedom of movement except for orthopedic, surgical
and other medical purposes as ordered by a physician.



Medical waste &#8211; Any solid waste that is generated in the diagnosis,
treatment, or immunization of human beings, or in research pertaining thereto,
or in the testing of biologicals, including but not limited to, soiled or
blood-soaked bandages, needles- used to give shots or draw blood, and lancets.



Medication Management &#8211; Patient service component of a program dealing
with the acquisition, storage, handling, accounting, prescribing, dispensing,
administering, and self-administering of drugs used for therapeutic purposes.



Medically or psychologically necessary &#8211; Services that are essential for
the treatment of substance abuse, as determined by a physician, psychologist, or
social worker as they relates to patient’s medical or psychiatric condition.



Narcotic Treatment program &#8211; A substance abuse treatment program that is
certified by the Department and certified by the Food and Drug Administration as
an opioid replacement treatment program.



Nutritional services &#8211; Services provided by a registered dietitian in a
substance abuse treatment facility or program.



Opioid Drug &#8211; Any drug having an addiction-forming or addiction sustaining
ability similar to morphine or being capable of conversion into a drug having
such addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining ability.



Opioid treatment &#8211; The dispensing of an opioid agonist treatment
medication, along with a comprehensive range of medical and rehabilitative
services, when clinically necessary, to an individual to alleviate the adverse
medical, psychological, or physical effects incident to opioid addiction.



Orientation &#8211; Introduction of new, promoted or transferred employees to
the philosophy, organization, practices, procedures and goals of the program.



Outcomes of care &#8211; Includes abstinence or reduction of abuse of
substances, elimination or reduction of criminal activity, reduction of
antisocial activity associated with substance abuse, reduction in need for
medical or mental health services, reduction of need for substance abuse
treatment, increase in pro-social involvement, and increase in productivity and
employment.



Outpatient services &#8211; Therapeutic services that are medically or
psychologically necessary and that are provided to a patient according to an
individualized treatment plan that does not require the patient’s admission to
a hospital or a non-hospital residential facility. The term “outpatient
services” refers to services that may be provided (on an ambulatory basis) in
a hospital, a non-hospital residential facility, an outpatient treatment
facility, or the office of a licensed physician, psychologist, or social worker.



Outpatient treatment facility &#8211; A clinic, counseling center, or other
similar establishment that is certified by the District or by any state or
territory as a qualified provider of outpatient services for the treatment of
substance abuse. The term “outpatient treatment facility” includes any
facility operated by the District, any state or territory, or the United States
to provide these services on an outpatient basis, or any private, for profit or
not for profit but excluding a group practice consisting solely of licensed
physicians, psychologists, or social workers.



Outreach &#8211; Efforts to inform and facilitate access to the program’s
services.



Parent &#8211; A person who has custody of a child as a natural parent,
stepparent of the child, has adopted the child, or has been appointed as a
guardian for the child by a court of competent jurisdiction.



Patient &#8211; A person who is admitted to a substance abuse treatment facility
or program who is judged to need substance abuse treatment services based on the
results of an intake screening and initial assessment.



Physical abuse &#8211; The abuse of a patient with more force than is reasonable
or apparently necessary for proper control, treatment or management;
purposefully beating, striking, wounding or injuring any patient; or the
mistreating or maltreating of a patient in a brutal or inhumane manner.



Physical restraint &#8211; Physical holding of a patient to temporarily restrict
freedom of movement in an emergency when the patient appears likely to inflict
serious physical harm to self or others.



Postpartum &#8211; A period of time for up to six (6) months after birth of
offspring.



Program Director &#8211; An individual having authority and responsibility for
the day-to-day operation of a substance abuse treatment facility or program.



Provider &#8211; A person, firm, corporation, partnership, or organization that
provides recovery support services, substance abuse treatment services, or a
combination of substance abuse treatment services and recovery support services.



Recovery support services &#8211; Services provided through the Access to
Recovery Program, which may include care coordination services, spiritual and
faith based support services, community based support services, educational
support services, parenting classes, family counseling services, child care,
transportation, and other services related to, but not including, substance
abuse treatment, with the exception of methamphetamine-related treatment
services. Methamphetamine-related treatment services provided through the Access
to Recovery Program shall be provided solely by providers certified pursuant to
section 2300, not including section 2300.14



Referral &#8211; Activities with and on behalf of a specific patient to
establish initial linkage and facilitate access to other substance abuse
treatment facilities or programs and support service providers.



Rehabilitation &#8211; The process of maximizing a patient’s ability to
achieve and maintain sobriety and to function in his/her current social
environment through structured therapeutic activities designed to develop
skills, attitudes and behaviors based on the patient’s rehabilitation plan.



Rehabilitation Plan &#8211; The course of action taken to address the issues
that are identified in the assessment. The plan includes the type of services
needed, frequency of services, the type of personnel providing the service,
monitoring of patient’s progress and periodic plan revision.



Research &#8211; Experiments including new interventions of unknown efficacy
applied to patients whether behavioral, psychological, biomedical or
pharmacological.



Serious Mental Illness &#8211; A diagnosis of mental illness as defined by the
most recent Diagnostic Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. The American
Psychiatric Association in 1994 published the fourth edition of this manual.



Sexual abuse &#8211; Any touching, directly or through clothing, of the
genitals, anus, or breasts of a person for other than medical purposes by an
employee or patient, or failing to exercise a duty to stop or prevent sexual
harassment between patients or causing patients to touch or fondle an employee
through either the clothing of the employee or direct body contact.



Static capacity &#8211; Maximum number of patients a facility or program can
serve at any given time.



Substance abuse &#8211; A pattern of pathological use of a drug or alcohol that
causes impairment in social or occupational functioning or produces
physiological dependency evidenced by physical tolerance or physical symptoms
when the drug or alcohol is not used.



Substance Abuse Treatment Program &#8211; Any individual, public or private
service provider, firm, corporation, partnership, society or association which
represents itself either through name, advertisement, practice, or reputation to
offer any service including treatment, counseling, or rehabilitation, to
alcoholics, drug abusers or drug dependent individuals. Such services may be in
addition to providing information, education, prevention, and aftercare services
related to substance abuse and addiction, but does not include providers
offering only information, education, prevention and aftercare services.



Support services &#8211; Include, but are not limited to, such services as
vocational training, education, and placement activities either provided
directly by the program or arranged for patients by the program through referral
to outside community resources.



Therapeutic Assistant Services &#8211; Services provided by an individual who
provides a variety of services within the substance abuse treatment facility or
program that are prescribed on the individual’s rehabilitation plan.



Treatment &#8211; Any effort to accomplish a change in the cognitive or
emotional conditions or the behavior of a patient consistent with generally
recognized principles or standards in the substance abuse treatment field.



Verbal abuse &#8211; Staff or volunteers referring to a patient in the
patient’s presence, with profanity or in a demeaning, undignified or
derogatory manner.



	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000), adopting
Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7809 (September 22,
2000); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 8869(August 15, 2008)
