                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES[COLON] HUMAN RESOURCES &#8212; PERSONNEL TRAINING
STANDARDS (§ 29-2327)

2327.1. Substance abuse treatment personnel shall have annual training that
   meets the Occupational Safety &#038; Health Administration (OSHA) regulations
   and any other applicable infection control guidelines, including information
   on reducing exposure to hepatitis, tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS and on the use of
   universal precautions.

   2327.2. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall have at least
   one (1) staff person trained and certified in basic first aid and
   cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) present at all times during the hours of
   operation of the facility or program.

   2327.3. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall maintain and
   implement a written plan for staff development.

   2327.4. The staff development plan shall address the methods and mechanisms to
   ensure the provision of required orientation, in-service training, and
   continuing education.

   2327.5. All staff shall be trained in concepts of quality improvement and
   treatment outcomes.

   2327.6. The staff development plan shall also include information about the
   content of training methods, trainers, length of specific training sessions
   and methods to assess its effectiveness.

   2327.7. The staff development plan shall be revised at least annually.

   2327.8. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall provide and
   document orientation for all staff and volunteers who have direct contact with
   patients within thirty (30) days of employment. Orientation shall include, but
   not be limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	The program’s approach to treatment, including philosophy, goals and
   methods;
   
   
   
   (b)	The staff member’s specific job description and role in relationship to
   other staff;
   
   
   
   (c)	An emergency preparedness plan and all safety-related policies and
   procedures;
   
   
   
   (d)	The employee’s rights (such as those affecting confidentiality),
   including a review of definitions of abuse and neglect;
   
   
   
   (e)	The procedures for involuntary civil detention, as applicable;
   
   
   
   (f)	The personnel policies and procedures;
   
   
   
   (g)	The proper documentation of services in individual treatment records, as
   applicable;
   
   
   
   (h)	Policies and procedures governing infection control, protecting against
   exposure to communicable diseases, and the use of universal precautions; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Laws and policies governing confidentiality of patient information and
   release of information.

   2327.9. All clinical and/or professional substance abuse treatment facility or
   program staff shall participate in twenty (20) clock-hours of in-service
   training or continuing education, or both, per year, exclusive of required
   orientation, with at least ten (10) hours of continuing education provided by
   an outside source.

   2327.10. The facility or program shall ensure that staff and patients have
   information on acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and that staff has
   completed basic training in HIV/AIDS education as determined by the
   Department.

   2327.11. All training activities shall be documented and maintained on-site,
   to include the training topic, name of instructor, date of activity, duration,
   skills targeted, objective of skill, lists of attendees, certification
   continuing education units (if any) and location.

   2327.12. Qualified staff in adequate numbers shall be available to perform
   required program services to all individuals admitted to the program,
   including but not limited to qualified staff to address the language and
   special needs of patients, i.e. American Sign Language. Women’s programs
   shall have female staff in attendance at all times when patients are present.

   2327.13. Staff shall adhere to ethical standards of behavior in their
   relationships with patients as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	Staff shall maintain an objective, professional relationship with patients
   at all times;
   
   
   
   (b)	Staff shall not enter dual or conflicting relationships with individuals
   that might affect professional judgment, therapeutic relationships, or
   increase the risk of exploitation; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The facility shall establish written policies and procedures regarding
   staff relationships with both current and former patients.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7740
   (September 22, 2000).
