                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECORDS MANAGEMENT &#8212; STANDARDS FOR STORAGE AND RETENTION OF PATIENT
RECORDS (§ 29-2355)

2355.1. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall retain patient
   records (either original or accurate reproductions) for at least five (5)
   years or until all litigation, adverse audit findings, or both, are resolved.

   2355.2. Records of minors shall be kept for at least five (5) years after such
   minor has reached the age of eighteen (18) years.

   2355.3. Each facility or program shall place a copy of the “Rights of
   Patients” statement, signed by the patient, in the patient’s record.

   2355.4. The patient or legal guardian shall also be given a written statement
   concerning patient’s rights and responsibilities in the program. The patient
   or guardian, attesting to his or her shall sign the statement understanding of
   these rights and responsibilities as explained by the staff person who shall
   witness the client’s signature. This document shall be placed in the
   patient’s record.

   2355.5. If the records of a facility or program are maintained on computer
   systems, the database shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Have a backup system to safeguard the records in the event of operator or
   equipment failure, natural disasters, power outages, and other emergency
   situations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Identify the name of the person making each entry into the record;
   
   
   
   (c)	Be secure from inadvertent or unauthorized access to records in accordance
   with “Confidentiality of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Patient Records” 42
   C.F.R., Part 2, and District laws and regulations regarding the
   confidentiality of patient records; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Limit access to providers who are involved in the care of the patient and
   who have permission from the patient to access the record, and create an
   electronic trail when data is released.

   2355.6. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall abide by federal
   laws and regulations concerning the confidentiality of records in accordance
   with “Confidentiality of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Patient Records” 42
   C.F.R., Part 2, and District laws and regulations regarding the
   confidentiality of patient records.

   2355.7. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall maintain records
   in a manner that safeguards confidentiality in the following manner:
   
   
   
   (a)	Records shall be stored with access controlled and limited to authorized
   staff and authorized agents of the Department;
   
   
   
   (b)	Written records that are not in use shall be maintained in either a
   secured room, locked file cabinet, safe, or other similar container; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The facility or program shall implement policies and procedures that
   govern patient access to their own records.

   2355.8. The policies and procedures of a substance abuse treatment facility or
   program shall not restrict a patient’s access to their record or information
   in the record.

   2355.9. The policies and procedures of a substance abuse treatment facility or
   program shall specify that a staff member must be present whenever a patient
   accesses his or her records. If the patient disagrees with statements in the
   record, the patient’s objections shall be written in the record.

   2355.10. All staff entries into the record shall be clear, complete, accurate
   and recorded in a timely fashion.

   2355.11. All entries shall be dated and authenticated by the recorder with
   full signature and title.

   2355.12. All entries shall be typewritten or legibly written in indelible ink
   that will not deteriorate from photocopying.

   2355.13. Any documentation error shall be marked through with a single line
   and initialed and dated by the recorder.

   2355.14. Limited use of symbols and abbreviations shall be pre-approved by the
   facility or program and accompanied by an explanatory legend.

   2355.15. For all facility or program services, the record shall document the
   following for each service episode:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name of service rendered and a synopsis of the service activity;
   
   
   
   (b)	The date and actual beginning and ending time the service was rendered;
   
   
   
   (c)	Legible signature and title of person who rendered the service;
   
   
   
   (d)	Location in which the services were rendered if other than the facility or
   program site; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The relationship of the services to the rehabilitation treatment plan.

   2355.16. The service episode note documenting family therapy shall clearly
   state the relationship of the participant(s) to the patient.

   2355.17. For each group session, a group log shall document the type of
   service, date, actual beginning and ending time, attendance and the signature
   and title of the staff member providing the service.

   2355.18. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall have a written
   policy for conducting periodic record reviews to evaluate completeness,
   accuracy, and timeliness of entries.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7782
   (September 22, 2000).
