                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICES AND SUPPORTS &#8212; OFF-SITE, OFF-HOURS CRISIS INTERVENTION STANDARDS
(§ 29-2338)

2338.1. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall provide for its
   patients a twenty-four (24) hour per day, seven (7) day per week on-call
   system for crisis intervention counseling, and referral to appropriate
   emergency substance abuse treatment resources.

   2338.2. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall have a written
   plan for &#8211; a crisis intervention on-call telephone communication system
   for patients to access in the event of a crisis during hours when the facility
   or program is not operational.

   2338.3. A substance abuse treatment facility’s or program’s crisis
   intervention on call system shall provide off-hour patient linkage to a
   licensed and/or certified care provider, preferably someone with whom the
   patient has some interaction during his/her normal course of treatment.

   2338.4. Upon admission, a patient shall be given the emergency on-call
   telephone number, and shall receive orientation and written instructions on
   how to access the on-call crisis intervention system.

   2338.5. Qualified individuals staffing the on-call crisis intervention system
   shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Facilitate admission to an appropriate program or facility on an emergency
   referral basis, if indicated; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Have the ability to conduct face-to-face crisis intervention with the
   individual at a pre-designated location when indicated.

   2338.6. The facility or program shall have affiliation agreements with other
   service providers to accept patients in crisis, for services not directly
   provided by the program or facility, or for access to a facility during
   off-hours for crisis management, if necessary.

   2338.7. The facility or program shall document in the patient’s record any
   activity related to off-hours interventions on the next day of operation of
   the facility or program, subsequent to the event. The documentation of the
   crisis intervention shall include but is not limited to the nature of the
   crisis, the location of the intervention, the resolution of the crisis, the
   disposition of the patient, and the follow-up plan. The patient’s primary
   addiction counselor shall also be notified.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7763
   (September 22, 2000).
