                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICES AND SUPPORTS &#8212; REHABILITATION SERVICES STANDARDS (§ 29-2336)

2336.1. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall provide services
   in accordance with the patient’s rehabilitation plan.

   2336.2. If a patient fails to appear at any scheduled program activity, the
   facility or program staff shall contact the individual to maintain active
   program participation. Efforts to contact the individual, the results of those
   efforts, and the response shall be documented in the record using standardized
   forms supplied by the Department.

   2336.3. The facility or program staff shall initiate efforts to contact a
   patient who fails to appear for a scheduled program activity within 24 hours
   of the scheduled activity, unless circumstances indicate that an immediate
   effort to contact the individual should be made.

   2336.4. Therapeutic recreational, vocational, and educational services shall
   be provided or arranged, according to the patient’s needs and desired
   outcomes from treatment.

   2336.5. Staff of facilities and programs providing services to parents with
   children shall address therapeutic issues relative to parents as recommended
   by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Center for
   Substance Abuse Prevention PEP Guidelines: Preventing Substance Abuse among
   Children and Adolescents: Family Centered Approaches. See SPECIALTY SERVICE
   &#8211; ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR PROGRAMS SERVING PARENTS AND CHILDREN.

   2336.6. Service needs of admitted patients that exceed the authority of the
   program’s or facility’s certification shall be arranged through referral,
   contract or affiliation agreement with another organization certified to
   provide the necessary service.

   2336.7. The substance abuse treatment facility or program shall develop and
   implement service delivery policies and procedures that address at a minimum:
   
   
   
   (a)	The roles and responsibilities of service delivery staff in the
   implementation of a patient’s rehabilitation plan with special attention to
   the relationship and functions of case manager and addiction counselors
   consistent with these standards;
   
   
   
   (b)	Mechanisms to ensure that services are delivered in accordance with the
   individualized rehabilitation plan; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Criteria for the involvement of assigned service delivery staff when a
   specific patient requests crisis assistance.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7761
   (September 22, 2000).
