                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES[COLON] MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION &#8212; PROGRAM AND
CLINICAL DIRECTORS STANDARDS (ยง 29-2314)

2314.1. The governing body or executive director shall appoint a program
   director to whom it delegates, in writing, the authority and responsibility
   for the administrative direction and day-to-day operation of the organization,
   facility and/or program.

   2314.2. The governing body or executive director shall appoint a clinical
   director to whom it delegates, in writing, the authority and responsibility
   for the clinical direction and day-to-day delivery of clinical services
   provided to patients of the facility(s) and/or program(s). This individual may
   or may not be the same person who performs the duties of the facility or
   program director.

   2314.3. The facility or program director with input from the clinical director
   shall provide a quarterly report to the governing body regarding the
   operations of the substance abuse treatment facility or program. The report
   shall include the financial status, individual service delivery and
   utilization, personnel, and progress in achieving program goals and
   objectives.

   2314.4. The facility or program director and clinical director shall have
   adequate time and authority to perform necessary duties to ensure that service
   delivery is in compliance with applicable standards set forth in this chapter.

   2314.5. The facility or program director shall be responsible and accountable
   for the administrative and general management requirements of the program or
   facility and for day-to-day operations.

   2314.6. The clinical director, if different from the program or facility
   director shall be responsible and accountable for the methodology and quality
   of treatment services delivered on a day-to-day basis within the program or
   facility.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7721
   (September 22, 2000).
