                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICES AND SUPPORTS &#8212; ON-SITE CRISIS INTERVENTION AND CLINICAL EMERGENCY
STANDARDS (§ 29-2337)

2337.1. The facility or program shall develop and implement a crisis
   intervention policy that includes a mechanism for obtaining urgent or
   emergency medical services if on-call physician back-up is not available
   during normal operating hours. This requirement does not apply to non-hospital
   detoxification facilities or programs since they are required to have
   twenty-four (24) hour medical staff coverage.

   2337.2. The facility or program shall document in the patient’s record the
   provision of crisis intervention services to include but not be limited to
   identification of the patient in crisis, the nature of the crisis, the
   resolution of the crisis, the disposition of the patient, and the follow-up
   plan, if applicable.

   2337.3. The facility or program shall develop and implement written policies
   and procedures for prompt intervention in the event of patient medical and
   psychiatric emergencies that include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Definition of medical or psychiatric emergency;
   
   
   
   (b)	Procedures for immediate access to appropriate internal and external
   resources;
   
   
   
   (c)	Staff responsibilities;
   
   
   
   (d)	Location of client emergency medical information; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The telephone number and location of the nearest hospital, ambulance
   service, rescue squad or other trained medical personnel, the nearest poison
   control center and the police.

   2337.4. A facility or program shall have immediate access to emergency medical
   information about a patient that shall include but is not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address, and telephone number of the patient’s physician, if
   available;
   
   
   
   (b)	The name, address and telephone number of the patient’s relative or
   other person to be notified;
   
   
   
   (c)	Medical insurance company name and policy or Medicaid, Medicare or CHAMPUS
   number, if any; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Information concerning medications used, medication and food allergies,
   history of substance abuse, and significant medical problems.

   2337.5. Medical or psychiatric emergencies which occur on-site during the
   course of service provision shall be documented in the patient’s record and
   shall include but not be limited to events precipitating the emergency, the
   nature of the emergency, treatment received, the disposition of the patient,
   and the follow-up plan, if applicable.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7762
   (September 22, 2000).
