                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES[COLON] MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION &#8212; GOVERNING
BODY STANDARDS (§ 29-2313)

2313.1. Each substance abuse treatment facility or program shall have a
   governing body with legal and fiduciary authority, as well as responsibility
   for the overall operation of the program. In addition:
   
   
   
   (a)	If a public facility, the governing body shall have a description of its
   administrative framework and the lines of authority within which it operates;
   and,
   
   
   
   (b)	If a private facility, the governing body shall have written documentation
   of the source of its authority through either a charter, constitution,
   articles of incorporation, by-laws or certification.

   2313.2. The governing body shall establish policies for and exercise general
   direction over the operation of a substance abuse treatment facility or
   program.

   2313.3. The methods used by the governing body to establish policy and provide
   general direction must be documented, including frequency of meetings,
   appointment of officers, establishment of committees, establishment of
   attendance requirements for board members, fiscal reviews, record keeping and
   recording of minutes, and any other structural guidelines necessary to
   demonstrate compliance with the scope of authority held by the governing body.

   2313.4. In addition to the annual business meeting of the board, meetings
   shall be held as required to maintain proper oversight and control.

   2313.5. The governing body shall orient new board members to the structure and
   operation of its facility or program and shall establish a continuing
   education program for all board members of the governing body.

   2313.6. The governing body shall review triennially the independent audit of
   fiscal operations, including the management letter, prepared by an independent
   certified public accountant (CPA). The review shall occur at the meeting
   following receipt of the audit and management letter and the governing body
   shall take corrective action accordingly. The audit, management letter, and
   records of all meetings shall be available to the Department.

   2313.7. The governing body shall develop and approve:
   
   
   
   (a)	A detailed description of the parent organization that includes:
   
   
   
   (1)	Mission statements with clear identification of philosophy, purpose, and
   goals;
   
   
   
   (2)	The scope of the organization’s operating elements and programs;
   
   
   
   (3)	The management and leadership structure; and
   
   
   
   (4)	The relationship among components within the organization and with
   agencies outside of the organization.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7719
   (September 22, 2000).
