                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE STANDARDS &#8212; QUALITY IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS (§ 29-2319)

2319.1. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall develop and
   implement a Continuous Quality Improvement (CQI) plan that integrates the
   process improvement into the agencies’ organizational structure and ongoing
   service delivery as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The facility or program shall establish a written quality improvement
   plan, approved by the governing board and executive director. The plan shall
   mandate that all organizational members participate in a quality improvement
   process;
   
   
   
   (b)	The quality improvement plan shall identify the committee, group, or
   person responsible for the coordination and implementation of the quality
   improvement process; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The staff and the governing body shall review the plan annually and revise
   it as appropriate.

   2319.2. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall establish
   support for, and maintain the quality improvement process through the
   facility’s or program’s professional and administrative staff by
   requiring:
   
   
   
   (a)	The active involvement of interdisciplinary teams of service delivery
   staff and management in improving the treatment process;
   
   
   
   (b)	Interdisciplinary teams to gather data on treatment outcomes before and
   after changing the process of care; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The establishment of procedures to ensure that the findings of the quality
   improvement process, recommendations for addressing problem areas, and results
   of corrective action efforts are reviewed and written evidence of utilization
   by staff to enhance service delivery.

   2319.3. The following functions and programmatic indicators shall be included
   in the comprehensive quality improvement process:
   
   
   
   (a)	Verification of necessary experience, education and ongoing competence of
   staff for the delivery of substance abuse treatment services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Supervision and training of all personnel;
   
   
   
   (c)	Auditing of administrative and patient records to determine accuracy,
   completeness, quality, and timeliness of entries in the record in accordance
   with certification standards and program policy;
   
   
   
   (d)	Monitoring of key quality indicators of service delivery and outcomes
   including:
   
   
   
   (1)	Recovery and recidivism rates;
   
   
   
   (2)	Cost of services;
   
   
   
   (3)	Appropriateness of services; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Access to services.
   
   
   
   (e)	Identifying and monitoring of unusual occurrences and the related
   problems/issues;
   
   
   
   (f)	Reviewing the appropriateness of the level of service on an ongoing basis;
   
   
   
   (g)	Reviewing the utilization of services beyond the usual and customary
   length of stay consistent with an objective review by unbiased participants;
   and
   
   
   
   (h)	Obtaining recommendations and feedback from patients, staff and other
   individuals, patients’ family members, and community agencies regarding the
   appropriateness and effectiveness of the facility’s or program’s services.

   2319.4. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall monitor any
   other programmatic indicators identified by the facility, program or the
   Department.

   2319.5. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall collect data for
   each indicator on an ongoing basis using a standardized format as required by
   the Department.

   2319.6. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall have computer
   hardware, software and network capability compatible with the Department’s
   management information system for the electronic transmission of required
   uniform data and information which will be used to determine appropriateness
   of admissions and service plans, measure outcomes and recovery rates, and
   determine compliance with other requirements of this chapter.

   2319.7. The substance abuse treatment facility or program shall collect
   quarterly random samplings of patient outcomes, including but not limited to
   biological markers such as drug/alcohol screening results, on a form provided
   by the Department.

   2319.8. When a significant problem or quality of service issue is identified,
   the substance abuse treatment facility or program shall act to correct the
   problem or improve the effectiveness of service delivery, or both, and shall
   assess corrective or supportive actions through continued monitoring.

   2319.9. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall maintain a
   quality improvement record system, compatible with the Department’s data
   requirements.

   2319.10. The record system shall contain documentation, including peer and
   other monitoring reviews, reports, recommendations, corrective actions and the
   status of previously identified problems, outcomes related to certification
   standards, or both.

   2319.11. The record system shall be available to the Department for review.

   2319.12. The record system shall include minutes of all quality improvement
   meetings, with attendance, time, place, date, actions or recommendations for
   actions noted, achievement of outcomes, and information disseminated to
   patients and staff concerning improvement.

   2319.13. The Department shall maintain a record of the outcomes of treatment
   for each substance abuse facility or program. The Department shall treat the
   record as a public document and shall periodically publish and/or distribute
   findings to providers, patients, and the general public.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7725
   (September 22, 2000).
