                                  DC REGULATIONS

CERTIFICATION[COLON] APPLICATION &#8212; CONTENT (§ 29-2303)

2303.1. An applicant shall state whether he or she is applying for
   certification to provide treatment for drug abuse, alcohol abuse, or a
   combination thereof.

   2303.2. An application for certification shall be submitted to the Department
   with the required fees and attachments, and shall include the following
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Evidence of a valid Certificate of Occupancy and the most recent fire
   inspection report;
   
   
   
   (b)	A current organizational chart;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement describing the type of program services provided and a
   physical description of each location occupied by the program;
   
   
   
   (d)	A notarized listing of names, addresses, and telephone numbers of owners,
   officers or agents of the facility or program;
   
   
   
   (e)	A business/capitalization plan demonstrating the applicant’s financial
   ability and organizational capability to provide services to the target
   population;
   
   
   
   (f)	A description of services and community coordination to be provided to
   meet the needs of the target population in areas including but not limited to
   housing and child development centers;
   
   
   
   (g)	A description of proposed program operations including, but not limited to
   staffing, location, and hours of operation;
   
   
   
   (h)	The specific qualifications, licensure, and certification for all
   professional staff;
   
   
   
   (i)	The specific training and experience of all staff providing patient care,
   including the director and supervisory staff;
   
   
   
   (j)	The number of persons to be served by the facility, including the static
   capacity and the estimated number of persons served annually;
   
   
   
   (k)	A description of an advisory or planning committee which includes
   representatives from the target population, names of representatives from
   relevant community groups and service agencies, and evidence of their
   involvement with the development of the program, including but not limited to,
   letters of support and minutes of meetings; and
   
   
   
   (l)	Proof of liability insurance coverage, provided that such coverage
   includes malpractice insurance of at least one hundred thousand dollars
   ($100,000), and comprehensive general coverage of at least three hundred
   thousand dollars ($300,000) per incident, to include general liability,
   vehicular liability, and property damage. Such coverage shall include coverage
   of all personnel, consultants or volunteers working in the facility or
   program.

   2303.3. Application forms shall list all certificates of approval, authority,
   occupancy, or certificates of need required as a precondition to lawful
   operation in the District, including but not limited to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	District and Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) controlled substance
   registrations as required by Chapter 10 of Title 22 of the District of
   Columbia Municipal Regulations; and 21 C.F.R., Part 1300 &#8211; 1399,
   respectively;
   
   
   
   (b)	Professional health occupations licenses and registrations in accordance
   with the District of Columbia Health Occupations Revision Act of 1985
   Amendment Act of 1994, effective March 25, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-99, D.C. Code,
   2001 Ed. §3-1201.01 et seq.);
   
   
   
   (c)	Copies of written agreements with any entity providing program services;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	Certification from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the
   operation of a narcotic treatment program or opioid treatment program.

   2303.4. The Department shall review a completed application within ninety (90)
   business days of receipt to determine whether the applicant is eligible for
   certification. The Department will notify the applicant by mail of its
   determination.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7713
   (September 22, 2000).
