                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICES AND SUPPORTS &#8212; UNUSUAL INCIDENTS, AND INVESTIGATIONS (§ 29-2330)

2330.1. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall develop and
   implement written policies and practices related to individual abuse, neglect,
   and unusual incidents to insure prompt reporting and a prompt, impartial
   investigation and review.

   2330.2. A substance abuse facility or program shall provide written notice to
   the Department of any unusual incident which results in physical injury or
   death, within twenty-four (24) hours of the incident or within twenty-four
   (24) hours of the program director becoming aware of the incident.

   2330.3. Suspicious or unusual incidents include, but are not limited to, the
   following apparent or alleged incidents involving patients, staff and/or
   visitors, occurring on or off site during program operating hours and/or while
   the staff person was on official duty and the patient was participating in a
   supervised aspect of the program:
   
   
   
   (a)	Unexplained or suspicious physical injury or any death of a patient,
   visitor or staff;
   
   
   
   (b)	Apparent or alleged physical abuse or neglect, which results in physical
   injury or would have resulted in injury or death; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Apparent or alleged sexual assault or abuse.

   2330.4. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall maintain in a
   secure file, copies of all complaints, unusual incident reports, investigation
   findings, and actions taken, with a separate file for those that may be of a
   criminal nature. These records shall be readily available for review by the
   Department.

   2330.5. An apparent or alleged incident of abuse or neglect involving a minor
   under the age of eighteen (18), including reporting of abuse or neglect of
   minors by parents, guardians or others, shall be immediately reported to the
   District of Columbia Metropolitan Police Department and to the Child
   Protective Services Division of the Department of Human Services.

   2330.6. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall immediately
   notify the parent or legal guardian of any incident involving a minor under
   the age of eighteen (18). If the parent or legal guardian is suspected of
   being the alleged perpetrator, the facility shall exercise clinical judgment
   when informing the parent or guardian that the provider initiated the report
   in accordance with the Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect Act of 1977,
   effective September 23, 1977 (D.C. Law 2-22, D.C. Code, 2001 Ed. §4-1321.01
   et seq.).

   2330.7. The procedures of a substance abuse treatment facility or program
   shall specify the methods of investigation and review of unusual incidents,
   including identification of staff responsible for conducting the
   investigation. The policies, procedures and practices shall include, but are
   not limited to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A written submission to the Department of all incidents under
   investigation involving abuse, sexual assault, neglect, injury, death, or any
   other incident alleged to be of a criminal nature or that threatens the health
   and safety of patients and/or staff;
   
   
   
   (b)	A provision that if the safety of an individual is threatened as,
   determined by the facility’s or program’s director, the alleged
   perpetrator shall not work directly with patients until the investigation is
   completed;
   
   
   
   (c)	A requirement that an investigation conducted by a substance abuse
   treatment facility or program shall be initiated within twenty-four (24) hours
   of reporting of the incident and shall be completed within ten (10) calendar
   days;
   
   
   
   (d)	A provision that the Department may grant an additional ten (10) day
   extension to a facility or program upon receiving a written request for an
   extension of time within which to complete an investigation;
   
   
   
   (e)	A provision that within twenty-four (24) hours of receiving a request for
   any extension, the Department shall either concur with the extension or
   request that the investigation be completed within a shorter timeframe.

   2330.8. The facility or program shall submit written findings of the
   investigation to the Department within twenty-four (24) hours of completing
   the investigation.

   2330.9. The facility or program shall review the investigation findings and
   take appropriate action, including steps to reduce the likelihood of further
   recurrences of such incidents.

   2330.10. The facility or program shall cooperate with the Department in the
   completion of investigations conducted by Department staff.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7746
   (September 22, 2000).
