                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICES AND SUPPORTS &#8212; LEVELS OF PATIENT CARE STANDARDS (§ 29-2331)

2331.1. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall develop and
   implement generally accepted assessment, placement, continuing care, and
   discharge criteria, such as those provided by the American Society of
   Addiction Medicine (ASAM) and the Level of Care Utilization System for
   psychiatric and addiction services (LOCUS).

   2331.2. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall develop and
   implement a service delivery model that includes one or any combination of
   three (3) levels of treatment and rehabilitation and which outlines in
   descriptive terms admission criteria established for each level.

   2331.3. A facility or program shall develop and implement a written plan for
   referring admitted patient, whose status changes while in treatment, to other
   programs providing different levels of care based on the patients needs. The
   plan shall include but be limited to affiliation or other agreements,
   transportation arrangements, and communications to facilitate referrals and
   share information as necessary, in accordance with District and federal laws
   and regulations governing confidentiality. This plan shall be in addition to
   the referral requirements specified in §2335.9.

   2331.4. A facility or program seeking reimbursement shall comply with Medicaid
   regulations or other funding sources criteria for reimbursement.

   2331.5. A facility’s or program’s intake and assessment unit may authorize
   a patient to enter treatment provided the facility or program offers the level
   of care indicated by the assessment, based on the patient’s severity of
   illness, previous treatment history, and other critical indicators.

   2331.6. A facility or program shall be categorized by modality in one of the
   following levels of care based on the described intensity of service:
   
   
   
   (a)	Level III (Sub-Acute Non-Hospital Medically Monitored Detoxification,
   Non-Hospital Residential Treatment Programs, Day Treatment/Partial
   Hospitalization Programs) &#8211; This is the most structured and intensive
   service delivery option in the Rehabilitation Program. Programs falling into
   three major groups are included here:
   
   
   
   (1)	medically monitored non-hospital in-patient programs with ready access to
   medical, psychiatric and laboratory services,
   
   
   
   (2)	clinically monitored residential treatment programs with accessibility to
   medical, psychiatric and laboratory services, but through a more distant
   relationship, and
   
   
   
   (3)	medically monitored outpatient day treatment programs providing 20 or more
   hours of structured programming per week, with ready access to psychiatric,
   medical and laboratory services. Patients admitted to group 3 reside in an
   overnight environment where access to alcohol and other drugs is controlled,
   such as a supervised home environment, jail, nursing home or other licensed
   health care facility. Special attention will be given to assessment of an
   individual’s need for housing and supervision;
   
   
   
   (b)	Level II (Intensive Outpatient) &#8211; This less restrictive level offers
   a therapeutic milieu consisting of regularly scheduled sessions for a minimum
   of nine (9) hours a week in a structured program, which provides patients with
   the opportunity to remain in their own living environment. It addresses
   functional impairments as they relate to substance abuse in individuals not in
   crisis; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Level I (Basic Outpatient) &#8211; This is the least intensive, least
   restrictive level of care. It offers non-residential services totaling fewer
   than 9 hours a week. It offers directed treatment and recovery services that
   address major lifestyle, attitudinal, and behavioral issues that can undermine
   treatment goals and inhibit a patient’s ability to cope with major life
   tasks, without abusing psychoactive substances. This level of care assists the
   patient in sustaining treatment gains, and emphasizes personal growth issues
   such as vocational rehabilitation and relapse prevention methods. Most
   outpatient abstinence and narcotic treatment programs fall into this level of
   care.

   2331.7. Admission to Level III treatment shall be based on an assessment of
   the individual’s condition, which indicates that the individual’s
   condition meets at least three (3) of the following criteria within six (6)
   dimensions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Dimension 1. &#8211; Acute Intoxication, and/or Withdrawal Potential/Acute
   Mental Decompensation: Individual displays severe intoxication and/or
   withdrawal risk (non-life threatening), or a strong potential for risk to self
   or others if condition deteriorates.
   
   
   
   (b)	Dimension 2. &#8211; Biomedical Condition, Co-Morbidity and Complications:
   Individual’s medical condition may be seriously exacerbated by substance
   abuse and/or mental illness; requires medical monitoring but not intensive
   treatment.
   
   
   
   (c)	Dimension 3. &#8211; Emotional/Behavioral Condition and Functional Status:
   Individual displays moderate to severe symptomatic distress, or impairment in
   functioning or behavior, with potential to distract from treatment or
   recovery, requiring monitoring in a structured setting which may or may not be
   twenty-four (24) hours.
   
   
   
   (d)	Dimension 4. &#8211; Treatment Acceptance/Resistance: Individual needs
   intensive motivating strategies and highly structured programs. May display
   destructive and inaccessible attitude.
   
   
   
   (e)	Dimension 5. &#8211; Relapse/Regression Potential: Individual is unable to
   maintain control of symptoms despite active participation in less intensive
   care or situational crisis.
   
   
   
   (f)	Dimension 6. &#8211; Recovery Environment: Necessitates removal of
   individual from dangerous recovery environment that may also be highly to
   extremely stressful with minimal to no supportive network.

   2331.8. Admission to Level II rehabilitation level of service shall be based
   on an assessment of the individual’s condition, which indicates that the
   individual’s condition is no more severe than the following criteria for
   Dimensions 1, 2, and 3 and matches at least two (2) of the following criteria
   for Dimensions 4, 5 or 6:
   
   
   
   (a)	Dimension 1. &#8211; Acute Intoxication, and/or Withdrawal Potential/Acute
   Mental Decompensation: Individual displays minimal withdrawal risk and/or
   moderate to serious potential for dangerousness.
   
   
   
   (b)	Dimension 2. &#8211; Biomedical Condition, Co-Morbidity and Complications:
   Individual’s condition indicates that no biomedical condition exist or
   individual’s condition is significant enough to require management in a
   Level II setting but is not distracting from addictions and/or mental health
   treatment.
   
   
   
   (c)	Dimension 3. &#8211; Emotional/Behavioral Condition and Functional Status:
   Individual displays mild to moderate symptomatic distress or impairment in
   functioning or behavior, which threatens the ability to live in the community
   and/or has the potential to distract from treatment or recovery.
   
   
   
   (d)	Dimension 4. &#8211; Treatment Acceptance/Resistance: Individual displays
   obstructive attitude and engagement resistance high enough to require
   structured program.
   
   
   
   (e)	Dimension 5. &#8211; Relapse/Regression Potential: Individual’s past
   history or current symptomatology indicates likely deterioration/relapse
   without structured program with close monitoring and support.
   
   
   
   (f)	Dimension 6. &#8211; Recovery Environment: Individual lives in a
   moderately stressful environment with a limited support network, but with
   structure or support, the individual can cope.

   2331.9. Admission to the Level I treatment shall be based on an assessment of
   the individual’s condition, which indicates that the individual’s
   condition meets at least five (5) of the following criteria within six (6)
   dimensions:
   
   
   
   (a)	Dimension 1. &#8211; Acute Intoxication, and/or Withdrawal Potential/Acute
   Mental Decompensation: Individual displays no withdrawal risk and /or minimal
   to low potential for dangerousness.
   
   
   
   (b)	Dimension 2. &#8211; Biomedical Condition, Co-Morbidity and Complications:
   Individual’s condition indicates that no biomedical condition exist, stable
   or manageable with minimal indication of adverse affects on substance abuse or
   mental health treatment.
   
   
   
   (c)	Dimension 3. &#8211; Emotional/Behavioral Condition and Functional Status:
   Individual does not displays any emotional/behavior condition, minimal or mild
   symptomatic distress or impairment in functioning or behavior.
   
   
   
   (d)	Dimension 4. &#8211; Treatment Acceptance/Resistance: Individual displays
   optimal/constructive attitude and engagement but needs motivating and
   monitoring strategies.
   
   
   
   (e)	Dimension 5. &#8211; Relapse/Regression Potential: Individual is able to
   maintain community functioning with minimal support; has a history of positive
   treatment outcomes; and is able to maintain abstinence and/or medication
   regimen.
   
   
   
   (f)	Dimension 6. &#8211; Recovery Environment: Individual lives in a low to
   mildly stressful/supportive environment and has coping skills.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7748
   (September 22, 2000).
   
   
   
   	EDITOR’S NOTE: This section as adopted included two subsections numbered
   “2331.6” In this edition, the second §2331.6 has been renumbered
   §2331.7. Concurrently, original §§2331.7 and 2331.8 have been renumbered
   §§2331.8 and 2331.9, respectively.
