                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIALITY SERVICES &#8212; STANDARDS FOR BEHAVIORAL MANAGEMENT (§ 29-2366)

2366.1. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall develop written
   policies and procedures that define the use of behavior management, including
   time-out, physical, mechanical and chemical restraint, seclusion, and the use
   of positive and negative reinforcement.
   
   
   
   (a)	The facility or program shall prohibit by policy and practice the
   following practices:
   
   
   
   (1)	Aversive conditioning of any kind;
   
   
   
   (2)	Withholding of food, water or bathroom privileges;
   
   
   
   (3)	Painful stimuli; or
   
   
   
   (4)	Corporal punishment.
   
   
   
   (b)	Required behavior management policies and procedures shall be:
   
   
   
   (1)	Approved by the facility’s or program’s executive director or if a
   governmental entity, approved by the governing Department;
   
   
   
   (2)	Made available to all program employees and providers;
   
   
   
   (3)	Made available to individuals, their families and others upon request;
   
   
   
   (4)	Developed with the participation of the persons served and, whenever
   possible, family members or advocates, or both; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Be consistent with rules developed by the Department regarding patient
   rights.
   
   
   
   (c)	Time-out does not preclude the use of behavior-modifying techniques such
   as ignoring undesirable behaviors or withdrawing attention due to behavior.

   2366.2. All substance abuse treatment facility or program staff involved in
   person to-person contact and behavior management shall receive training in the
   safe and effective use of all behavior management methods permitted by
   facility or program policy.

   2366.3. Training shall be documented in the employee’s personnel file and
   shall be updated as needed but at least annually. The facility or program
   manual shall specify which staff are included or excluded from this
   requirement.

   2366.4. If a substance abuse treatment facility or program utilizes chemical,
   physical and mechanical restraints, such restraints shall be used only if
   ordered by a practitioner in emergency situations where the potential exists
   for self-harm or harm to others.

   2366.5. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall use emergency
   restraint only when less restrictive alternatives have failed and only to
   reduce or eliminate a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
   patient, staff or others. Any use of restraint shall conform to the facility
   or program’s policies and procedures regarding restraint.

   2366.6. The staff of a substance abuse treatment facility or program shall
   evaluate patients who required emergency restraint on more than one (1)
   occasion during any thirty (30) day periods for appropriateness of continued
   participation in the facility or program.

   2366.7. A director of a substance abuse treatment facility or program shall
   review each use of emergency restraint within two (2) business days of its
   occurrence. The quality improvement committee shall review monthly incidents
   and appropriateness of corrective actions taken and make recommendations
   regarding any further process improvements needed to reduce the use of
   restraints.

   2366.8. The staff of a substance abuse treatment facility or program shall
   document the use of any restraint in the patient’s record and shall include
   the rationale for the order of emergency restraint, the type of restraint and
   the signature of the practitioner ordering the restraint.

   2366.9. Immediately after use of a restraint, the facility or program staff
   shall take appropriate steps to ensure the patient’s safety including, but
   not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Arranging for a more restrictive treatment setting;
   
   
   
   (b)	Contacting the Department, police, patient’s family and physician, as
   appropriate; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Arranging for an ambulance or hospitalization.

   2366.10. The facility or program staff shall document any harmful effects to a
   patient due to the use of emergency restraint and shall bring those effects to
   the immediate attention of the substance abuse treatment facility or program
   director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7804
   (September 22, 2000).
