                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIALITY SERVICES &#8212; STANDARDS FOR DUAL DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES (§ 29-2362)

2362.1. All substance abuse treatment facilities or programs shall have the
   capability of serving persons with dual diagnosis as defined in the standards.
   The facilities or program may serve persons with a diagnosis of serious mental
   illness and substance abuse if it is determined that the facility can
   adequately address the needs of the individual.

   2362.2. For persons with a mental disease or disorder, the facility shall
   ensure inter-facility collaboration to maximize the benefits of service
   delivery by:
   
   
   
   (a)	Establishing positive working agreements with providers of psychiatric or
   mental health services including consultation for psychopharmacological
   interventions as follows:
   
   
   
   (1)	For person(s) with serious and persistent mental illness, the facility
   shall establish one (1) or more written agreements with a mental health
   facility, which offers services which include, at a minimum, medication
   management, psychosocial day programming, case management, and an emergency
   on-call system; and,
   
   
   
   (2)	For person(s) with a mental disease or disorder which is not a serious and
   persistent mental illness, the facility shall have a written referral and
   cooperative agreement with a mental health service provider(s) or facility
   with staff qualified to provide, at a minimum, medication management and
   therapy/counseling;
   
   
   
   (b)	Describing in the rehabilitation plan the services and goals of the
   psychiatric/mental health service provider and involving the service provider
   in treatment planning and updates; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Requiring that service delivery staff maintain regular and frequent
   contact with the mental health service provider to achieve coordination and
   continuity of treatment.

   2362.3. The facility or program staff shall meet with the mental health
   service provider(s) to discuss and determine the appropriate treatment
   strategy to address the patient’s mental illness. At this meeting a
   treatment plan shall be formulated or an existing treatment plan revised to
   reflect the needs, problems, and goals identified as a result of the
   evaluation.

   2362.4. If the facility or program staff concurs with the mental health
   service provider(s) that a dually diagnosed individual requires and is capable
   of benefitting from treatment and rehabilitation, the individual shall be
   admitted. All necessary services shall be coordinated among the staff, and
   when applicable a single clinical case manager shall be designated.

   2362.5. If the facility or program staff concurs with the mental health
   service provider(s) that a dually diagnosed individual requires admission to
   address psychiatric rehabilitation needs and requires other specialized
   alcohol and drug abuse treatment as an adjunct, the individual shall be
   referred to the mental health facility or equivalent facility for admission
   with required coordination of services by the agencies.

   2362.6. The staff of a substance abuse treatment facility or program shall
   receive specific training to meet the needs of a dually diagnosed patient as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	An overview of the signs and symptoms, functional impairment and treatment
   modalities, including the use of medications, for persons with dual diagnosis
   of substance abuse and mental disorder, with special attention to the broad
   categories of thought disorders and mood disorders;
   
   
   
   (b)	Guidelines for cooperative service delivery and specific techniques and
   guidelines for service delivery to dually diagnosed individuals; and
   
   
   
   (c)	For facilities or programs that serve the seriously mentally ill, the
   training shall also emphasize cognitive functioning, residual symptomatology,
   psychotropic medication side effects, parental family therapy, and the need
   for emergency referral when needed.

   2362.7. The staff of a substance abuse treatment facility or program that
   serves the seriously and persistently mentally ill shall receive specific
   training to meet their needs as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	An overview of the signs and symptoms, functional impairment and treatment
   modalities, including the use of medications, for persons with dual diagnosis
   of substance abuse and mental disorder, with special attention to the broad
   categories of thought disorders and mood disorders; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Guidelines for cooperative service delivery and specific techniques and
   guidelines for service delivery to dually diagnosed individuals.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7800
   (September 22, 2000).
