                                  DC REGULATIONS

RECORDS MANAGEMENT &#8212; STANDARDS FOR PATIENT RECORDS MAINTENANCE AND
REPORTING (§ 29-2354)

2354.1. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall maintain an
   organized record of each patient served in a secured manner.

   2354.2. The substance abuse treatment facility or program director shall
   designate a staff member to be responsible for the maintenance and
   administration of records.

   2354.3. The facility or program shall arrange and store records according to a
   uniform system approved by the Department.

   2354.4. The facility or program shall maintain records readily accessible for
   use and review by authorized staff and other authorized parties.

   2354.5. The facility or program shall organize the content of records so that
   information can be located easily and surveys and audits by the Department can
   be conducted with reasonable efficiency.

   2354.6. The facility or program shall be linked to the systems in the
   Department to allow retrieval of electronic data including but not limited to
   outcomes of care, in a secured environment with the consent of the patient as
   required.

   2354.7. The facility or program shall participate in the Department’s
   central registry of programs and facilities and registry of patients receiving
   substance abuse treatment.

   2354.8. At a minimum, all patient records shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Documentation of the referral and initial screening interview and its
   findings;
   
   
   
   (b)	The individual’s consent to treatment;
   
   
   
   (c)	Orientation to the program’s services, rules, confidentiality, and
   patient’s rights;
   
   
   
   (d)	Confidentiality forms;
   
   
   
   (e)	Diagnostic interview and record;
   
   
   
   (f)	Evaluation of medical needs and as applicable, medication intake sheets
   and special diets which shall include:
   
   
   
   (1)	Documentation of physician’s orders for medication and treatment, change
   of orders and/or special treatment evaluation; and
   
   
   
   (2)	For drugs prescribed following admissions, the patient’s record showing
   any prescribed drug product by name, dosage and strength, as well as date(s)
   medication was administered, discontinued or changed;
   
   
   
   (g)	The assessment findings of the addiction counselor and community support
   worker;
   
   
   
   (h)	Individual rehabilitation plan and updates;
   
   
   
   (i)	Progress notes;
   
   
   
   (j)	Documentation of all services provided to the patient as well as
   activities directly related to the individual rehabilitation plan;
   
   
   
   (k)	Documentation of missed appointments and efforts to contact and re-engage
   the patient;
   
   
   
   (l)	Releases signed to permit the facility to obtain and/or release
   information;
   
   
   
   (m)	Documentation of all referrals to other agencies and the outcome of such
   referrals;
   
   
   
   (n)	Documentation establishing all attempts to acquire necessary and relevant
   information from other sources;
   
   
   
   (o)	Pertinent information reported by the patient, family members or
   significant others regarding a change in the individual’s condition and/or
   an unusual or unexpected occurrence in the patient’s life;
   
   
   
   (p)	Drug tests and incidents of drug use;
   
   
   
   (q)	Annual assessment and related documentation, where applicable;
   
   
   
   (r)	Discharge summary and aftercare plan;
   
   
   
   (s)	Signatures of client, counselor and clinical supervisor; and
   
   
   
   (t)	Outcomes of care and follow-up data concerning outcomes of care.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7779
   (September 22, 2000).
