                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES &#8212; DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF
CERTIFICATION (§ 29-2367)

2367.1. The Department may refuse to issue or renew, or may revoke, or suspend
   a certification for failure to comply with the provisions of the Act, rules
   adopted pursuant to this Act, and all other applicable provisions of law in
   accordance with the District of Columbia Drug Abuse, and Mental Illness
   Insurance Coverage Act of 1986, effective (D.C. Law 6-195, D.C. Code, 2001 Ed.
   §31-3101 et seq.).

   2367.2. The Department may simultaneously use one or more of the remedies
   listed in this section to penalize facilities or programs for violating
   aspects of this chapter. The remedies included in this section are:
   
   
   
   (a)	Summary suspension &#8211; which takes effect immediately without benefit
   of a hearing, for infractions posing imminent risk;
   
   
   
   (b)	Suspension &#8211; which may be delayed until the program or facility has
   an opportunity to be heard on the charges when the charges do not pose an
   imminent risk;
   
   
   
   (c)	Revocation &#8211; which may be delayed until the program or facility has
   an opportunity to be heard on the charges when the charges do not pose an
   imminent risk;
   
   
   
   (d)	Denial of an application for certification; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Civil fines and penalties.

   2367.3. A determination of non-compliance may include, but is not limited to,
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Violation of federal, state and local laws, ordinances, rules, regulations
   and codes relating to building, health, fire protection, safety, sanitation
   and zoning;
   
   
   
   (b)	Deficiencies that may result in death, a substantial probability of harm
   or actual injury to a patient’s safety, health, or welfare;
   
   
   
   (c)	Deficiencies that may result in the facility’s or program’s failure to
   comply with certification standards;
   
   
   
   (d)	Serious or repeated violation of patient rights;
   
   
   
   (e)	Permitting, aiding or abetting the commission of an illegal act in a
   licensed program or facility;
   
   
   
   (f)	Fraudulent fiscal practices;
   
   
   
   (g)	Failure to allow an inspection in accordance with this chapter;
   
   
   
   (h)	Willful submission of false or misleading information to the Department in
   connection with an application for certification or related to certification
   procedures;
   
   
   
   (i)	Failure to obey any lawful order of the Department pursuant to the
   provisions of the Act, rules adopted pursuant to this chapter, and all other
   applicable provisions of law;
   
   
   
   (j)	Conviction of a member of the governing body, a Director, Administrator,
   the Chief Executive Officer, Department head, or other key staff member, of a
   felony involving the management or operation of a facility, or which is
   directly related to the integrity of the facility;
   
   
   
   (k)	Violation of this chapter, or other laws or regulations of the District of
   Columbia or the United States relating to the operation of a facility or
   program operating within the District of Columbia, of the type governed by
   these rules; or
   
   
   
   (l)	Failure or refusal to submit reports or make records available as
   requested by the Department in accordance with the authority granted by these
   rules or the Act.

   2367.4. If the Department proposes to take action written notice shall be
   given to the facility or program.

   2367.5. The proposed action shall become final unless the applicant files a
   request for a hearing with the Department within fifteen (15) days of the
   notice or submits documentary evidence for the Department’s consideration.

   2367.6. If the facility or program submits documentary evidence but does not
   request a hearing, the Department shall consider the material submitted and
   take such action as is appropriate without a hearing.

   2367.7. The Department shall notify the facility or program in writing if the
   proposed action becomes final.

   2367.8. The Department may summarily suspend a certification of any facility
   or program if the Department determines that existing deficiencies constitute
   an imminent or serious danger to the health, safety or welfare of its
   patients.

   2367.9. The Department shall suspend processing of an application for
   certification or re-certification when a facility, program or staff is under
   investigation for fraud, financial misconduct, physical or sexual abuse, or
   improper clinical practices.

   2367.10. All proceedings for the denial, suspension, revocation, limitation,
   or refusal to issue or renew a certification shall be conducted in accordance
   with the DCAPA.

   2367.11. If the Department has denied an application for certification, the
   applicant must wait at least ninety (90) days before filing a new application
   for certification.

   2367.12. If the Department has revoked a facility’s or program’s
   certification, the facility or program must wait at least one (1) year before
   filing a new application for certification. The Department’s review of a
   future application shall take into consideration the severity of prior
   violations, actions taken by the facility or program to correct the
   violations, and the effect of the resulting action on the community.

   2367.13. Upon revocation or suspension of the certification the organization
   must surrender its certificate to a representative of the Department.
