                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICES AND SUPPORTS[COLON] STANDARDS FOR CORE REQUIREMENTS &#8212; DISCHARGE
SUMMARY (§ 29-2352)

2352.1. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall develop criteria
   and implement written policies and procedures regarding:
   
   
   
   (a)	Termination or removal from the program;
   
   
   
   (b)	Discharge planning;
   
   
   
   (c)	Discharge or completion of the program; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Re-entry following termination or discharge.

   2352.2. Prior to a patient’s discharge from a substance abuse treatment
   facility or program, an aftercare plan shall be developed.

   2352.3. The patient’s record shall contain a discharge summary that
   summarizes information regarding the patient’s condition from the time of
   first contact through treatment termination. The discharge summary shall
   minimally include and address the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Admission date and referral source;
   
   
   
   (b)	Initial assessment, including present problems;
   
   
   
   (c)	Initial diagnosis;
   
   
   
   (d)	Significant findings;
   
   
   
   (e)	Course and progress of treatment towards the goals in the rehabilitation
   plan;
   
   
   
   (f)	Outcomes at the time of discharge, in relation to identified problems;
   
   
   
   (g)	Final assessment, including prognosis;
   
   
   
   (h)	Final diagnosis;
   
   
   
   (i)	Recommendations and referrals made as stated in the continuing care or
   aftercare plan;
   
   
   
   (j)	Discharge date and reason; and,
   
   
   
   (k)	Follow-up plans.

   2352.4. If a patient voluntarily terminates involvement with a substance abuse
   treatment facility or program against the advice of staff, the discharge
   summary shall include a statement that explains the circumstances under which
   the patient was terminated.

   2352.5. If a patient is involuntarily terminated for non-compliance as
   specified in the facility’s or program’s policies and procedures, the
   discharge summary shall include a statement that explains the circumstances
   under which the patient was terminated and the conditions that must be met by
   the patient for re admission.

   2352.6. The discharge summary shall be completed and entered into the
   patient’s record no later than fifteen (15) days after the patient’s
   discharge from a substance abuse treatment facility or program and shall be
   signed by the primary care counselor, the clinical case manager, and the
   supervisor. The discharge date shall be considered the date on which services
   were last provided.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7778
   (September 22, 2000).
