                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIALITY SERVICES &#8212; ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR PROGRAMS SERVING PARENTS
AND THEIR CHILDREN (§ 29-2357)

2357.1. In addition to core requirements and other standards described in this
   chapter, a substance abuse treatment facility or program providing
   rehabilitation services to parents and their children shall comply with this
   section for the delivery of care.

   2357.2. A substance abuse treatment facility or program providing
   rehabilitation services to parents and their children shall provide services
   solely to one gender and their children if such gender specific programs are
   recommended by the Treatment Improvement Protocols of the Center for Substance
   Abuse Treatment (TIPs). Living arrangements for adult men shall be separate
   from women and their children if recommended by TIPs.

   2357.3. Facilities or programs that serve parents and their children shall
   engage in all activities necessary to ensure priority admission and service
   delivery to women who are pregnant or postpartum.

   2357.4. Facilities or programs that serve parents and their children shall
   admit adolescents who are pregnant or postpartum if the facility or program
   can provide evidence that the adolescent can appropriately participate in and
   benefit from the program services.

   2357.5. Infants shall accompany their mothers when services are provided in a
   supervised residential setting, unless contraindicated by medical, legal or
   other reasons, which are documented in the patient’s record.

   2357.6. In the event a newborn infant remains in a medical facility while the
   mother participates in services, the residential program shall ensure that
   there is a daily visit/contact between the mother and newborn infant.

   2357.7. Any medical or therapeutic reasons that prevent such daily contact
   shall be documented in the patient’s record and shall be accompanied with
   plans to improve parent-child bonds during the separation and to restart
   contact.

   2357.8. Children, other than newborn infants, shall accompany their parents to
   the facility or program when indicated or when appropriate care from other
   family members or resources are not available.

   2357.9. Clinicians who prevent parents from regular contact with their
   children shall provide written justification to the Department as to why
   contact is detrimental for the parent or child.

   2357.10. Clinicians shall also provide a detailed written plan and schedule of
   activity for strengthening the bond between parents and children during and
   after the end of the separation. These plans shall be provided even if the
   separation is with the consent of the parent and shall be documented in the
   parent’s record.

   2357.11. Children of a homeless parent, independent of age and gender, shall
   not be separated from the parent during or because of treatment. If separation
   must occur, the facility or program shall provide the following to the
   Department:
   
   
   
   (a)	Justification for separation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Plans for strengthening parent/child bonds during and after the separation
   has ended; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Evidence of safe and developmentally appropriate housing for the children
   involved.

   2357.12. Facilities or programs that serve parents with children shall address
   therapeutic issues relevant to parents and specific needs of the parents.

   2357.13. Service delivery for facilities or programs that serve parents with
   children, shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	At least one (1) hour of planned, supervised activities to promote
   parent-child bonding daily; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A minimum of the following instruction and hands on behavioral exercises
   weekly:
   
   
   
   (1)	One (1) hour regarding the effects of using alcohol and other drugs during
   pregnancy;
   
   
   
   (2)	One (1) hour regarding child development; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Two (2) hours regarding parenting skills.

   2357.14. Children shall be supervised at all times and shall be provided age
   appropriate activities, training and guidance.

   2357.15. A facility or program shall ensure that child care/day care is
   available for children, to be provided either directly or through contractual
   or other affiliation, while the parent participates in treatment and
   rehabilitation services.

   2357.16. A facility or program that directly operates a child development
   facility shall be licensed in accordance with the District of Columbia Child
   Development Facilities, Chapter 3 of Title 29 of the District of Columbia
   Municipal Regulations.

   2357.17. Facilities or programs that serve parents with children shall address
   therapeutic issues and specific needs of the children as specified in the
   parent’s rehabilitation plan. Age-appropriate activities, training and
   guidance shall be offered to facilitate the parent’s recovery goals as well
   as to meet the following goals:
   
   
   
   (a)	Building self-esteem;
   
   
   
   (b)	Learning to identify and express feelings;
   
   
   
   (c)	Building positive family relationships;
   
   
   
   (d)	Developing decision-making skills;
   
   
   
   (e)	Understanding chemical dependency and its effects on the family;
   
   
   
   (f)	Learning and practicing nonviolent ways to resolve conflict;
   
   
   
   (g)	Learning safety practices such as sexual abuse prevention; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Addressing developmental needs.

   2357.18. Facilities or programs that serve parents with children shall ensure
   school age children are in regular attendance at a public, independent,
   private, or parochial school, or private instruction in accordance with the
   District of Columbia Compulsory School Attendance Amendment Act of 1990,
   effective March 8, 1991 (D.C. Law 8-247, D.C. Code, 2001 Ed. §38-201 et
   seq.).

   2357.19. Facilities or programs that serve parents with children shall provide
   directly or otherwise make available tutoring programs to assist school age
   children who are having difficulty maintaining better than average school
   grades.

   2357.20. Facilities or programs that serve parents with children shall develop
   policies and procedures describing the method for retaining and recording
   information collected on the children residing in or attending the program who
   are not formally admitted for treatment, linking information on the child to
   the course of treatment for the parent as clinically indicated.

   2357.21. A facility or program shall develop policies and procedures for
   determining the need to formally admit a child as a discrete patient.

   2357.22. A facility or program shall establish a separate record for each
   child when a clinical determination is made to formally admit the child as a
   discreet patient.

   2357.23. The record shall document the child’s developmental assessment, to
   include but not be limited to the child’s history and current status
   physically emotionally, socially, educationally, and in relation to the
   family.

   2357.24. An individualized treatment plan shall be developed for any child who
   is formally admitted to the facility or program as a discrete patient.

   2357.25. The child’s parent or legal guardian shall sign the treatment plan
   and consent for treatment.

   2357.26. During all hours of operation, there shall be a minimum of two (2)
   staff members on-duty within a residential support program.

   2357.27. Additional staff may be required, depending upon the number of
   parents and children present and the type of activities offered.

   2357.28. Services delivery staff and program administration shall demonstrate
   experience and training to address the needs of parents and children.

   2357.29. All services delivery staff shall receive periodic training regarding
   therapeutic issues relevant to women and children. At least two (2) times per
   year the program shall provide or arrange training on each of the following
   topics
   
   
   
   (a)	Special considerations in the treatment of women, including pregnant and
   postpartum women;
   
   
   
   (b)	Child development and the appropriate care and stimulation of infants
   including drug-affected newborn infants;
   
   
   
   (c)	Treatment of patients who are victims of violence (including rape) or
   traumatized by observing violence; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Treatment of patients who have initiated or participated in violence
   against others.

   2357.30. Service delivery staff shall maintain current training in first aid
   and cardiopulmonary resuscitation for infants and adults.

   2357.31. A facility’s or program’s governing board shall include members
   with a special interest in the expertise related to the program or services
   for parent(s) and children, such as prospective referral sources, health care,
   child care, and social service providers.

   2357.32. A facility or program that serves parents with children shall
   maintain a safe healthy environment, which is responsive to the physical and
   medical needs of parent(s) and children.

   2357.33. A facility or program that serves parents with children shall
   maintain a smoke-free environment and shall assist patients in reducing and
   eliminating dependence on tobacco.

   2357.34. A facility or program that serves parents with children shall have
   written affiliation agreement(s) and demonstrate effective working
   relationship(s) with a physician, hospital, and/or clinic to provide medical
   care for women, including pregnant and postpartum women, men, and their
   children.

   2357.35. A facility or program that serves parents with children shall ensure
   that a medical evaluation is performed for each parent and child. The medical
   evaluation shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Current physical status, including vital signs and verification of
   childhood immunizations required by the Department;
   
   
   
   (b)	Recent substance use patterns, including the most recent substance use
   episode;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any symptoms of intoxication, impairment or withdrawal;
   
   
   
   (d)	Any history of being a victim or participating in violence against others;
   and
   
   
   
   (e)	The extent of violence in current relationships.

   2357.36. A facility or program that serves parents with children shall provide
   or arrange detoxification services for any parent who presents symptoms of
   intoxication, impairment or withdrawal.

   2357.37. A facility or program that serves pregnant women with symptoms of
   intoxication, impairment or withdrawal shall immediately provide or arrange
   for the patient to be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Evaluated by a physician, hospital, or medical clinic;
   
   
   
   (b)	Transported;
   
   
   
   (c)	Admitted for detoxification services in a hospital, when clinically
   indicated; and/or,
   
   
   
   (d)	Provided non-hospital detoxification services, if hospital services are
   not clinically indicated.

   2357.38. A facility or program with supervised living shall not be required to
   accept applications for civil detention of intoxicated persons due to the
   presence of children within the facility.

   2357.39. During the initial assessment, a facility or program shall ensure
   that each parent and child is medically stable, safe and fully able to
   participate in program services.

   2357.40. A facility or program shall ensure that recommendations by a
   physician, or licensed health care provider are implemented regarding medical,
   physical and nutritional needs.

   2357.41. A facility or program that serves parents with children shall work
   with the Department and other community agencies to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Link pregnant and postpartum clients with available case management
   services for high risk pregnancies; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Link clients with needed resources and services, such as Women, Infants
   and Children (WIC), Healthy Babies, and/or other appropriate programs.

   2357.42. A facility or program that serves parents with children shall
   maintain primary responsibility for community support linkages until the
   patient no longer participates in its services.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7786
   (September 22, 2000).
