                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICES AND SUPPORTS &#8212; PATIENT INTAKE AND SCREENING STANDARDS (§
29-2332)

2332.1. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall collect
   sufficient information on an individual seeking treatment to establish a
   patient profile for purposes of:
   
   
   
   (a)	Triaging patients based on presenting status;
   
   
   
   (b)	Establishing a baseline against which treatment outcomes will be measured;
   and
   
   
   
   (c)	Analyzing aggregate data on individuals seeking treatment for addiction in
   the District of Columbia.

   2332.2. Facilities and programs shall transmit electronically to the
   Department utilization and profile data and epidemiological and other studies
   for reporting requirements consistent with this chapter.

   2332.3. The Department shall provide to the facility or program information on
   minimum data sets, method of transmission, and reporting frequency.

   2332.4. The Department may require facilities and programs to use standardized
   tools based on national criteria for the collection of intake and screening
   information.

   2332.5. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall comply with the
   following standards for conducting intake and screening:
   
   
   
   (a)	Identify staff responsible for intake and screening functions by title,
   functional description of duties, qualifications and orientation requirements;
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide intake and screening within 24 hours of an individual’s request
   for services by telephone or in a face-to-face interview. Providers must
   maintain individual and aggregate data to demonstrate compliance with this
   standard;
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide intake and screening staff with emergency clinical consultation
   capability as necessary;
   
   
   
   (d)	Refer individual based on critical need to nurse or other skilled
   clinician for expedited in-depth assessment and level of care placement
   decision;
   
   
   
   (e)	Accept for admission only individuals whose service needs are consistent
   with the program description;
   
   
   
   (f)	Establish referral procedures for those individuals screened ineligible or
   inappropriate for admission to the level(s) of care available within the
   program or facility if
   
   
   
   (1)	The individual does not need addiction treatment; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Requires acute medical detoxification services, other medical services, or
   psychiatric services; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Document the individual’s refusal or acceptance of a referral for
   services, and the individual’s arrival at referral site by facilitating
   transport of patient to referral site as necessary.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7752
   (September 22, 2000).
