                                  DC REGULATIONS

SPECIALITY SERVICES &#8212; STANDARDS FOR DAY TREATMENT (§ 29-2356)

2356.1. A substance abuse treatment program providing day treatment shall
   provide services that are part of a comprehensive package of services and
   therapeutic structured activities.

   2356.2. Day treatment services shall be consistent with the patient’s
   rehabilitation plan, which is designed to achieve and promote recovery from
   substance abuse/dependency and improve client functioning and shall be
   provided a supervised substance-free facility.

   2356.3. Key service functions of day treatment shall include, but are not
   limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Activities to address the patient’s immediate need to abstain from
   substance use;
   
   
   
   (b)	Activities and structure which provide a meaningful, constructive
   alternative to substance abuse;
   
   
   
   (c)	Activities which promote individual responsibility for recovery;
   
   
   
   (d)	Activities that enhance life skills;
   
   
   
   (e)	Activities that address functional skills;
   
   
   
   (f)	Activities that enhance the use of personal support systems; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Activities which promote development of interests and hobbies to
   constructively use leisure time.

   2356.4. The required service components which shall be used to achieve key
   service functions of day treatment include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Individual counseling;
   
   
   
   (b)	Group counseling;
   
   
   
   (c)	Group education;
   
   
   
   (d)	Family and individual therapy; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Supervision of patients and structured programming to promote and
   reinforce a substance-free lifestyle including, but not limited to, organized
   recreational activities, skill building, structured self-study sessions,
   promotion of self-help, and peer support activities.

   2356.5. The ratio of patients to staff for day treatment components shall not
   exceed the maximums set forth in the provider manual. The number of staff
   required shall be increased as necessary based on the mix of patients in a
   program, the age of patients, the number of family members or others at the
   facility, off-site program activities, and the size and configuration of the
   day treatment facility space.

   2356.6. At least one (1) addiction counselor shall be present and providing
   services at all times when day treatment services are in operation and
   patients are in the day treatment facility. On weekends and holidays, an
   addiction counselor may provide on-call coverage rather than being physically
   present at the treatment facility. On-call coverage must be prompt and
   responsive to patient’s needs.

   2356.7. Day treatment services shall be offered seven (7) days per week. The
   day treatment program shall maintain a current activity schedule, which offers
   a minimum of thirty (35) hours of structured, planned, therapeutic activity
   per week.

   2356.8. Therapeutic activity shall include individual counseling, group
   education, family therapy, structured recreational activity, events involving
   patients and family members, and peer support activities at the site.

   2356.9. Therapeutic activity does not include time allocated for unstructured
   leisure, meals, or chores.

   2356.10. Counseling and group education are minimally required daily
   activities in which all patients must participate.

   2356.11. Each patient shall participate in at least two (2) hours of
   individual counseling per week. Family therapy may substitute for one (1) hour
   of required individual counseling.

   2356.12. Each patient shall to participate in at least eighteen (18) hours of
   group education and group counseling. At least six (6) of the required hours
   shall be group counseling. The remaining hours may be group education, group
   counseling, or group therapy, according to the needs of the target population
   and the program philosophy.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7784
   (September 22, 2000).
