                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICES AND SUPPORTS[COLON] STANDARDS FOR CORE REQUIREMENTS &#8212; FAMILY
THERAPY (§ 29-2343)

2343.1. Family therapy is defined as planned, goal-oriented therapeutic
   interaction of a qualified individual with the patient and/or one or more
   members of the patient’s family in order to address and resolve the family
   system’s dysfunction as it relates to the patient’s substance abuse
   problem in accordance with the patient’s rehabilitation plan. An individual
   living in the same household with the patient who has a significant
   relationship with the patient, may be considered a family member.

   2343.2. At least one (1) of the participating family members shall be age five
   (5) or older in order to qualify for family therapy service.

   2343.3. At least one (1) family member who participates in therapy sessions
   shall agree to activities he or she will do if patient relapses.

   2343.4. Family therapy may be provided in the facility, program or home
   setting.

   2343.5. Key service functions of family therapy may include, but are not
   limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Utilization of generally accepted principles of family therapy to
   influence the family;
   
   
   
   (b)	Examination of family interaction styles and identifying patterns of
   behavior;
   
   
   
   (c)	Development of a need or motivation for change in family members;
   
   
   
   (d)	Development and application of skills and strategies for improvement in
   family functioning;
   
   
   
   (e)	Identification and treatment of domestic violence and child abuse and
   neglect; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Generalization and stabilization of change through insight, structure and
   enhanced skills to promote healthy family interaction independent of formal
   helping systems.

   2343.6. Family therapy shall be performed by a person who:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is certified by the American Association of Marriage and Family
   Therapists; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Is a licensed clinical social worker and has one (1) year of supervised
   experience in family counseling or specializes in family counseling; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Has a master’s degree in psychology or counseling and one (1) year
   supervised experience in family counseling or specializes in family
   counseling.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7768
   (September 22, 2000).
