                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICES AND SUPPORTS[COLON] STANDARDS FOR CORE REQUIREMENTS &#8212; CLINICAL
CASE MANAGER QUALIFICATIONS AND SUPERVISION (§ 29-2345)

2345.1. Clinical case management services shall be provided by a person who:
   
   
   
   (a)	Has a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university in
   social work, counseling, psychology or closely related field; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Has at least four (4) years of relevant, qualifying full time equivalent
   experience in human service delivery and demonstrates skills in developing
   positive and productive community relationships, and the ability to negotiate
   complex service systems to obtain needed services and resources for
   individuals.

   2345.2. An individual with the following credentials shall supervise a case
   manager:
   
   
   
   (a)	A Licensed Individual Clinical Social Worker (LICSW); or
   
   
   
   (b)	A registered nurse, certified in chemical dependency; or
   
   
   
   (c)	A supervisory certified addiction counselor (CAC); or
   
   
   
   (d)	An individual with a Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or
   university in social work, counseling, psychology, or a closely related field,
   and at least two (2) full years of experience in providing clinical case
   management services.

   2345.3. Addiction counseling shall not be considered a case management service
   or activity. Individuals performing both addiction counseling and case
   management as part of his/her normal duties shall maintain records that
   clearly document separate time spent on each of these functions, such as, work
   logs, encounter reports, and documentation in the patients’ records.

   2345.4. Clinical case management shall be provided to all patients in a
   substance abuse treatment facility or program unless specific documentation is
   entered in the record to indicate that such services are not indicated.

   2345.5. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall have designated
   case management staff, except as described in §2345.3 and provide for
   continuity of caseload assignment throughout an individual’s participation
   in the facility or program.

   2345.6. The case manager shall document the services delivered in the
   patient’s record and legibly sign each entry.

   2345.7. The case manager’s supervisor shall provide regular case and chart
   review, meet face-to-face, and co-sign chart entries at least monthly to
   indicate compliance with rehabilitation plan.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7771
   (September 22, 2000).
