                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICES AND SUPPORTS &#8212; CORE SERVICE REQUIREMENTS (§ 29-2339)

2339.1. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall provide at a
   minimum the following consumer-centered core services on-site, either directly
   or through consultant/contract agreement, in such a manner as to ensure
   seamless care:
   
   
   
   (a)	Intake services as specified in SERVICES AND SUPPORTS &#8211; INTAKE AND
   SCREENING, except intake services provided by the Department as a condition of
   a contract or grant agreement or as required by District law;
   
   
   
   (b)	Individual assessment and placement services as specified in SERVICES AND
   SUPPORTS &#8211; PATIENT ASSESSMENT AND PLACEMENT Criteria. In the event that
   the Department provides the preliminary assessment and makes the placement
   decision as a condition of a contract or grant agreement or as required by
   District law, the facility or program shall be responsible for establishing an
   interdisciplinary team to complete any incomplete assessments in the time
   periods specified in SERVICES AND SUPPORTS &#8211; PATIENT ASSESSMENT AND
   PLACEMENT CRITERIA;
   
   
   
   (c)	Treatment/Rehabilitation planning;
   
   
   
   (d)	Clinical case management;
   
   
   
   (e)	Individual and group addiction counseling;
   
   
   
   (f)	Individual and group psychotherapy as specified in the patient’s
   rehabilitation plan;
   
   
   
   (g)	Family therapy as specified in the rehabilitation plan;
   
   
   
   (h)	Group education;
   
   
   
   (i)	Therapeutic assistant services for residential treatment facilities or
   programs;
   
   
   
   (j)	Registered/licensed nursing services as applicable to the level of care
   provided;
   
   
   
   (k)	Medical services on a frequency and accessibility level appropriate for
   the level and modality of care provided;
   
   
   
   (l)	Drug screening and other laboratory services; and
   
   
   
   (m)	Discharge and aftercare planning services.

   2339.2. Non-hospital residential and non-hospital detoxification facilities
   providing substance abuse treatment shall operate twenty-four (24) hours a
   day, seven (7) days a week.

   2339.3. A substance abuse treatment facility or program including a narcotic
   treatment program shall provide services seven (7) days per week, with hours
   of operation that are convenient to the population served, including evenings
   and weekend hours.

   2339.4. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall maintain hours
   of operation during daytime and evening hours that are consistent with the
   needs and schedules of the individuals it serves. Evening is defined as
   beginning at 6:00 p.m. for purposes of this chapter.

   2339.5. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall provide a
   minimum of twelve (12) hours of services per day, Monday through Friday, and a
   minimum of three (3) hours of services on weekends and holidays.

   2339.6. A substance abuse treatment facility or program may request an
   exemption from the twelve hours of service per day requirement in §2339.5 and
   the seven (7) days per week requirement in §2339.3. In approving an
   exemption, the Department shall give special consideration to requests from
   facilities or programs that provide non-residential Level I or Level II care.

   2339.7. If the Department approves an exemption of §2339.5, a substance abuse
   treatment facility or program shall offer a minimum of eight (8) hours of
   services per day, Monday through Friday.

   2339.8. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall be structured to
   accommodate a regular admission schedule for services Monday through Friday. A
   facility or program with weekend and holiday hours of operation shall have a
   system in place to admit individuals in crisis during weekends and holidays.

   2339.9. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall implement
   written policies that ensure access to transportation for scheduled services
   provided outside of the facility for patients in need. The facility shall
   provide or arrange for transportation to individuals in need as deemed
   clinically and programmatically necessary to obtain services specified in the
   individual rehabilitation plan.

   2339.10. A substance abuse treatment facility or program specifically serving
   parents with dependent children shall provide or arrange for therapeutic
   childcare or provide on-site short-term child care for parents participating
   in treatment and rehabilitation activities deemed clinically and
   programmatically necessary to obtain services consistent with the patient’s
   rehabilitation plan, and shall address the contribution of a parent’s
   substance abuse to the child’s development and wellness.

   2339.11. The facility or program director of a facility or program
   specifically serving parents with dependent children shall provide or assist
   in locating and obtaining private or public therapeutic childcare services as
   well as the resources to pay therapeutic childcare expenses, or shall provide
   on-site short-term childcare. All therapeutic childcare programs shall be
   licensed in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title 29 of the District of Columbia
   Municipal Regulations.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7764
   (September 22, 2000).
