                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICES AND SUPPORTS[COLON] STANDARDS FOR CORE REQUIREMENTS &#8212; GROUP
EDUCATION (ยง 29-2346)

2346.1. Key service functions of group education may include but are not
   limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Classroom style didactic lectures to present information about a topic and
   its relationship to substance abuse;
   
   
   
   (b)	Presentation of audiovisual materials that are educational in nature with
   required follow-up discussion;
   
   
   
   (c)	Promotion of discussion and questions about the topic presented to those
   in attendance; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Generalization of the information and demonstration of its relevance to
   recovery and enhanced individual functioning.

   2346.2. Group education services shall be provided by an individual who:
   
   
   
   (a)	Demonstrates competency and skill in educational techniques;
   
   
   
   (b)	Has knowledge of chemical dependency and its relationship to the topic(s)
   being taught; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Is present throughout the group education session.

   2346.3. The usual and customary size of group educational sessions shall not
   exceed thirty-five (35) persons in order to promote participation.

   2346.4. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall develop a
   schedule and curriculum for delivery of group education services addressing
   topics and material relevant to the patients.

   2346.5. A substance abuse treatment facility or program shall provide basic
   information to patients regarding:
   
   
   
   (a)	The progressive nature of dependency and the disease model, to include 12
   step programs, principles and availability of self-help groups, and health and
   nutrition;
   
   
   
   (b)	Support for the personal recovery process, including overcoming denial,
   recognizing feelings and behavior, promoting self-awareness and self-esteem,
   encouraging personal responsibility and constructively using leisure time;
   
   
   
   (c)	Skill development, such as communication skills, stress reduction and
   management, conflict resolution, decision-making, assertiveness training, and
   parenting;
   
   
   
   (d)	The promotion of positive family relationships and relationships with
   significant others;
   
   
   
   (e)	Relapse prevention;
   
   
   
   (f)	The effects of alcohol and other drug abuse upon pregnancy and child
   development;
   
   
   
   (g)	HIV/AIDS, including related conditions, risk factors, preventive measures
   and the availability of diagnostic testing;
   
   
   
   (h)	Substance abuse and mental health conditions; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Parenting and child development, as appropriate.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9341 (November 24, 2000),
   adopting Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7708, 7772
   (September 22, 2000).
