                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPEARANCES AND REPRESENTATION (§ 14-4004)

4004.1. In any proceeding the following appearances may be made:
   
   
   
   (a)	An individual, receiver, or trustee may appear in his or her own behalf;
   
   
   
   (b)	A member of a partnership may represent the partnership;
   
   
   
   (c)	An officer of a corporation may represent the corporation;
   
   
   
   (d)	A member selected by the members of an association or an employee of the
   association, a group of tenants or non-profit corporation may represent the
   association, group or non-profit corporation;
   
   
   
   (e)	A managing agent or property agent, licensed by the District of Columbia
   and employed by a housing provider for the day-to-day management and operation
   of a housing accommodation, may represent an owner if only the owner is named
   as a party; or
   
   
   
   (f)	An owner may represent the managing agent or property manager if only the
   managing agent is named as a party.

   4004.2. Nothing in § 4004.1 prohibits the provision of technical assistance
   by a non- profit community service agency.

   4004.3. Any person appearing before, or transacting business with, RACD in a
   representative capacity may be required to establish authority to act in that
   capacity.

   4004.4. A person may be represented in any proceeding before RACD by one of
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	An attorney admitted to the practice of law in the District of Columbia,
   pursuant to the Rules of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals;
   
   
   
   (b)	An attorney admitted to practice before the highest court of any state
   upon the granting by the Rent Administrator of a motion for special
   appearance;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any law student practicing under the supervision of an attorney admitted
   to practice in the District of Columbia as part of a program approved by an
   accredited law school for credit; provided, that the law student’s
   representation before the RACD is undertaken pursuant to the student’s
   participation in the clinical program; provided further, that the law
   student’s supervising attorney is present at any hearing before the RACD; or
   
   
   
   (d)	A family member or close personal friend of a party, where the party is
   incapable of presenting his or her case because of a language barrier,
   physical infirmity, or mental incapacity; provided, that the family member or
   friend receives no compensation for representing the party before RACD.

   4004.5. The Rent Administrator may disqualify or deny, temporarily or
   permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it or the Rent
   Administrator in any way, to any individual who is found by the Rent
   Administrator, after hearing, either to be lacking in the requisite
   qualifications to represent others or to have engaged in unethical, improper
   or unprofessional conduct; provided, that any individual who shall willfully
   mislead the Commission or its staff by a false statement of fact or law shall
   be disqualified permanently.

   4004.6. If it appears to the hearing examiner at any time during the
   proceedings that the matter under review is so complicated or that the
   potential liabilities are so great that in the interest of justice a party
   ought to be represented by an attorney, the hearing examiner shall urge the
   party to obtain the services of an attorney.

   4004.7. If the party agrees to obtain the services of an attorney, the
   opposing party shall be so advised, and the hearing on the matter shall be
   continued for a reasonable time in order to allow the party to retain counsel
   and prepare for a hearing. The continuance shall not exceed thirty (30) days.

   4004.8. Upon motion of a party and upon good cause shown, the hearing examiner
   may disqualify a party’s representative on the grounds of conflict of
   interest.

   4004.9. In the event the selected representative of a party is disqualified,
   the matter shall be continued for a reasonable time to allow the party to
   obtain another representative and to allow that representative to prepare to
   participate in the proceedings. The continuance shall not exceed thirty (30)
   days.

   4004.10. Any representative of a party who wishes to withdraw from a matter
   pending before the RACD shall give written notice to that effect to the
   hearing examiner and to all parties; provided, that the hearing examiner shall
   consent to the withdrawal before it is effective, and shall have the right to
   impose such conditions upon withdrawal which shall preserve the administrative
   process.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336, 1362-1364 (March
   7, 1986); as amended by: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 2656,
   2659 (May 2, 1986); and Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 3179
   (May 23, 1986).
