                                  DC REGULATIONS

RULES OF EVIDENCE (§ 14-4009)

4009.1. Evidence at a hearing may be any information presented to the hearing
   examiner to prove facts at issue, and may include the testimony of witnesses,
   records, documents, or other proof.

   4009.2. Testimony or other evidence offered may be excluded from consideration
   by the hearing examiner if it is irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious.

   4009.3. All testimony and other evidence offered at a hearing, but excluded by
   the hearing examiner, shall be retained as part of the official record of the
   hearing or petition.

   4009.4. All testimony and other evidence shall be given in accordance with the
   provisions of the D.C. Administrative Procedure Act.

   4009.5. Each party shall have the right to present their case in person or
   through a representative, to submit rebuttal evidence, and to conduct such
   cross-examination as may be required for full disclosure of the facts at
   issue.

   4009.6. The parties may stipulate as to any matter of fact, which shall
   satisfy a party’s burden of proving that fact.

   4009.7. During a hearing, a hearing examiner, on his or her own motion or on
   the motion of a party, may take official notice of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Matters of common knowledge;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any information contained in the record of the RACD; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Any information contained in the records of any federal or District
   agency, board or commission; provided, that all parties have been given notice
   of the hearing examiner’s intention to do so and have been given an
   opportunity to show the contrary.

   4009.8. Official notice taken of any fact shall satisfy a party’s burden of
   proving that fact.

   4009.9. If, after a hearing has been concluded, the hearing examiner takes
   official notice of information contained in public records, as described in
   this section, each party is entitled to be informed in writing of the fact
   found by the hearing examiner, and to be provided an opportunity to contest
   the fact(s) officially noticed before a decision is issued.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336, 1366-67 (March
   7, 1986).
