                                  DC REGULATIONS

EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS (§ 14-4002)

4002.1. Oral or written communications regarding a petition or other contested
   issue pending disposition before the Rent Administrator or staff of RACD, for
   the benefit of one party only, and without notice to or contestation by the
   opposing party or any other person adversely interested, shall be considered
   ex parte communications. Ex parte communications shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Communications relevant to the factual substance of a case between any
   interested party and the Rent Administrator, the hearing examiner assigned to
   the case or other staff of RACD;
   
   
   
   (b)	Communications relevant to the qualifications of the hearing examiner
   before whom the proceeding is being heard, between any interested party and
   the Rent Administrator, the hearing examiner or other staff of RACD;
   
   
   
   (c)	Communications described in § 3818; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Communications regarding the evaluation of the merits of a party’s claim
   or case, legal advice or advocacy either before or after the filing of a
   petition or other contested issue, between an interested party and the Rent
   Administrator or other staff of RACD.

   4002.2. The provisions of § 4002.1 do not apply to any of the following oral
   or written communications:
   
   
   
   (a)	Those specifically authorized by law or this chapter to be made on an ex
   parte basis;
   
   
   
   (b)	Those related to a matter of form, format or procedure including the
   filling out of forms;
   
   
   
   (c)	Those made in the course of another proceeding of RACD to which the
   communication primarily relates, and which is on the public record; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Those between an interested party and a Contact Representative or other
   staff of RACD assigned the duty of providing information to the public
   regarding the provisions of the Act, regulations and the internal procedures
   of RACD and the Commission, including referrals to agencies and sources of
   legal assistance and advocacy. Contact representatives are authorized to do
   the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Hear a client’s explanation of his or her problem where no petition has
   been filed;
   
   
   
   (2)	Advise a client that grounds may exist for the filing of a petition and
   immediately refer the client to a source of legal or technical advocacy; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Advise clients on filling out forms; except that advice on how to state,
   describe, arrange, document, or argue a claim shall be prohibited.

   4002.3. The Rent Administrator, the hearing examiner or other staff of RACD
   who receives any communication regarding a petition or other contested issue
   pending disposition which is made in violation of this section shall cause the
   communication to be made part of the record and the hearing examiner shall
   notify all other parties and provide an opportunity for rebuttal.

   4002.4. If the Rent Administrator determines that a communication was
   knowingly made (or caused to be made) by a party acting in violation of this
   section, the Rent Administrator may, to the extent consistent with the
   interest of justice and the policy of applicable law, require the party to
   show cause why his or her claim or interest in the proceeding should not be
   dismissed, denied, or otherwise adversely affected.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336, 1361 (March 7,
   1986); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 2656,
   2657-59 (May 2, 1986).
