                                  DC REGULATIONS

STAGE 2 REVIEW CRITERIA (§ 11-2927)

2927.1. The criteria stated in the subsections that follow are applicable to
   Stage 2 applications.

   2927.2. External Connectivity – External connections shall provide adequate
   size, materials, lighting and signage to move users easily and safely.

   2927.3. Visual Relationship to Surroundings – A suitable visual relationship
   between building units and adjacent neighborhoods, Union Station and other
   historic landmarks, and the Federal precincts near the Capitol and the Supreme
   Court shall be provided, with particular attention paid to the eastern portion
   of the property north of Eye Street, N.E.

   2927.4. Active Entrances to Building Units – Public and publicly accessible
   areas such as sidewalks, parks, and plazas shall be activated through the use
   of operational entrances to retail, office, residential, and other uses.

   2927.5. Visual Façade Permeability – Where there are no operational
   entrances to uses, design of structures fronting on public and publicly
   accessible areas shall incorporate windows.  Or, where windows are not
   appropriate, unarticulated blank walls shall be minimized to the extent
   possible.

   2927.6. Environmental Stewardship – A high degree of environmental
   stewardship should be demonstrated; Characteristics may include, but not be
   limited to the following:
   
   
   
   
   
   Onsite energy generation;
   
   
   
   
   
   Rainwater harvesting;
   
   
   
   
   
   Green roofs, including green spaces on the upper surface of the Platforms;
   
   
   
   
   
   Other landscaping on the upper surface of the Platforms such as rainwater
   capturing tree boxes;
   
   
   
   
   
   Use of native species, drought tolerant species, adequate planting depth and
   efficient irrigation in landscaping;
   
   
   
   
   
   Use of efficient plumbing fixtures and fittings, enhanced insulation, and cool
   roofing;
   
   
   
   
   
   Use of environmentally friendly products in construction and operation;
   
   
   
   
   
   Natural lighting, including large windows, light wells, skylights, and
   daylight penetration to railroad facilities below the Platforms;
   
   
   
   
   
   Natural ventilation, including balconies, terraces, operable windows, and vent
   shafts;
   
   
   
   
   
   Minimizing construction waste; or
   
   
   
   
   
   Facilitation of transit usage by allowing and/or constructing improved access
   to transit facilities and interconnections between transit modes.

   2927.7. Private Open Space – Residential uses shall incorporate private open
   space such as balconies and terraces for individual units where practical and
   architecturally compatible.

   2927.8. Design of Open Spaces – Public and private open spaces shall
   incorporate shaded areas and adequate seating capacity.

   2927.9. Light and Air – Adequate light and air shall be provided to all
   building units in the USN District.

   2927.10. Parking Access – Convenient access shall be provided from any
   parking provided to the uses it is intended to serve.

   2927.11. Community Outreach – The application shall demonstrate that
   community outreach has occurred through participation in multiple venues and
   through multiple formats, including the affected ANC, and which could include
   but not be limited to meetings with the community, an informational website,
   emails, or mailed flyers.
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4788, 4808 (June 3,
   2011).
