                                  DC REGULATIONS

STAGE 1 REVIEW CRITERIA (§ 11-2925)

2925.1 	The criteria stated in the subsections that follow are applicable to
   Stage 1 applications.

   2952.2. External Connectivity – The development shall provide pedestrian
   connections in appropriate and feasible locations to surrounding development
   and surrounding neighborhoods including Union Station, NoMa west of the
   railroad tracks, and northern Capitol Hill.  The application shall indicate
   the location of all such proposed connections.  Connections are especially
   encouraged near the intersection of 1st and K Streets, N.E., 2nd and K
   Streets, N.E. and 2nd and Eye Streets, N.E.

   2925.3. Building Unit Heights and Visual Relationship to Surroundings – A
   suitable height for each building unit and appropriate massing relationship
   between proposed building units and adjacent neighborhoods, Union Station and
   other historic landmarks, and the Federal precincts near the Capitol and the
   Supreme Court shall be provided, with particular attention paid to the eastern
   portion of the property north of Eye Street, N.E.  The application shall also
   generally indicate what types of materials would be used on the portions of
   the exterior of the Platforms constructed pursuant to § 2917.14 that would
   be visible to the public.

   2925.4. Transportation Hierarchy – The movement of pedestrians, bikes and
   transit shall be prioritized, and provide reasonable accommodation for
   automobiles.  The location of parking and loading access shall not unduly
   impact the movement of pedestrians and bicyclists.

   2925.5. Division of Building Form – Monolithic buildings or the creation of
   excessively large building blocks shall be avoided.  Building unit massing and
   orientation should reflect the pattern of other development in the District.

   2925.6. Publicly Accessible Space – Any public space provided such as
   streets, parks or plazas shall be easily visible and publicly accessible.

   2925.7. Mix of Uses – The application shall demonstrate how the proposal
   contributes to an overall mix of uses in the USN District.

   2925.8. Impacts on Surroundings – The proposed development shall not tend to
   substantially affect nearby properties adversely due to obstruction of light
   or air or because of noise, odors, or other impacts on air quality, including
   exhaust from trains.  The development shall incorporate sufficient venting
   mechanisms for railroad uses below the site.

   2925.9. Building Livability – The vibration and noise caused by the movement
   of trains under residential buildings shall be mitigated.

   2925.10. Community Outreach – The application shall demonstrate that
   community outreach has occurred through participation in multiple venues and
   through multiple formats, including the affected ANC, and which could include
   but not be limited to meetings with the community, an informational website,
   emails, or mailed flyers.
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4788, 4806 (June 3,
   2011).
