                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES (ยง 17-8207)

8207.1. The Board may, in its discretion, approve continuing education
   programs and activities that contribute to the growth of an applicant in
   professional competence while practicing as a physical therapist assistant and
   which meet the other requirements of this section.

   8207.2. The Board may approve the following types of continuing education
   programs, if the program meets the requirements of ยง 8207.3:
   
   
   
   (a)	An undergraduate or graduate course given at an accredited college or
   university;
   
   
   
   (b)	A seminar or workshop;
   
   
   
   (c)	An education program given at a conference;
   
   
   
   (d)	In-service training (maximum ten (10) hours of credit);
   
   
   
   (e)	Home study courses; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Online courses.

   8207.3. To qualify for approval by the Board, a continuing education program
   shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be current in its subject matter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be developed and taught by qualified individuals; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Meet one of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	Be administered or approved by a recognized national, state or local
   physical therapy organization; health care organization; accredited health
   care facility; or an accredited college or university; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Be submitted by the program sponsors or the applicant to the Board for
   review no less than sixty (60) days prior to the date of the presentation and
   be approved by the Board.

   8207.4. The Board may issue and update a list of approved continuing education
   programs.

   8207.5. An applicant shall have the burden of verifying whether a program is
   approved by the Board pursuant to this section prior to attending the program.

   8207.6. The Board may approve the following continuing education activities by
   an applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Service as an instructor or speaker at a conference, seminar, workshop, or
   in-service training;
   
   
   
   (b)	Publication of an article in a professional journal or publication of a
   book or a chapter in a book or publication of a book review in a professional
   journal or bulletin; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Participation in research as a principal investigator or research
   assistant.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 8802 (August 15, 2008).
