                                  DC REGULATIONS

LAWFUL PRACTICE (ยง 17-8209)

8209.1. A physical therapist assistant may perform physical therapy functions
   only in accordance with this section.

   8209.2. A physical therapist assistant may perform the following functions
   under the direct supervision of a physical therapist:
   
   
   
   (a)	Use of therapeutic exercise, mechanical traction, therapeutic massage,
   compression, heat, cold, ultraviolet, water, and electricity;
   
   
   
   (b)	Measurement and adjustment of crutches, canes, walkers, and wheelchairs,
   and instruction in their use and care;
   
   
   
   (c)	Instruction, motivation, and assistance to patients and others in
   improving pulmonary function, learning, and functional activities such as
   pre-ambulation, transfer, ambulation and daily living activities, and the use
   and care of orthoses, prostheses, and supportive devices;
   
   
   
   (d)	Modification of treatment procedures as indicated by patient response and
   within the limits specified in the plan of care, and reported orally or in
   writing to the physical therapist; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Participation in routine administrative procedures required for a physical
   therapist service.

   8209.3. A physical therapist assistant may not perform the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Interpret referrals;
   
   
   
   (b)	Perform evaluation procedures;
   
   
   
   (c)	Initiate or adjust treatment programs; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Assume responsibility for planning patient care.

   8209.4. A licensed physical therapist shall be fully responsible for any
   actions by a physical therapist assistant performing physical therapist
   functions while under the physical therapist&#8217;s supervision.

   8209.5. A licensed physical therapist shall perform the final evaluation for a
   patient who has been treated throughout the patient&#8217;s history by a
   physical therapist assistant.

   8209.6. A physical therapist shall provide direct supervision to no more than
   three (3) physical therapist subordinates at any one time.

   8209.7. A physical therapist shall ensure the qualifications of all physical
   therapist assistants under his or her supervision.

   8209.8. Before a patient is by a physical therapist assistant, a licensed
   physical therapist shall evaluate the patient and formulate initial and
   ongoing treatment goals and plans.

   8209.9. Pursuant to ยง 8209.8, a licensed physical therapist shall reevaluate
   each patient being treated by a physical therapist assistant by the seventh
   (7th) visit and every seventh (7th) visit thereafter.

   8209.10. Support personnel shall only perform routine assigned tasks under the
   direct supervision of a licensed physical therapist or a licensed physical
   therapist assistant, who shall only assign those tasks or activities that are
   nondiscretionary and do not require the exercise of profession judgment.

   8209.11. A physical therapist assistant shall comply with the standards of
   ethical and professional conduct established by the recognized professional
   program which is approved by the Board, as they may be amended or republished
   from time to time.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 8802 (August 15, 2008).
