                                  DC REGULATIONS

LICENSURE BY EXAMINATION (ยง 17-8204)

8204.1. An applicant for licensure as a physical therapist assistant by
   examination shall initiate the application process by submitting a completed
   application together with the appropriate application fee and the
   documentation required by ยง 8202.2.

   8204.2. An applicant for licensure as a physical therapist assistant shall
   have pre-approval from the Board before taking any licensure examination. Only
   an applicant who has graduated from an accredited physical therapist assistant
   program may be approved by the Board to take the physical therapist assistant
   licensure examination.

   8204.3. An applicant for licensure by examination shall take and pass the
   National Physical Therapist Examination (&#8220;NPTE&#8221;) and the District
   of Columbia jurisprudence examination for physical therapist assistants.

   8204.4. Following approval from the Board to take the applicable examinations,
   the applicant may take the national examination and the District jurisprudence
   examination in any order.

   8204.5. The passing score on the national examination shall be determined by
   the body administering the examination.

   8204.6. The District jurisprudence examination shall be developed and
   administered by the Board or, a body approved by the Board, on laws and rules
   pertaining to the practice of physical therapy in the District of Columbia.

   8204.7. The District jurisprudence examination may consist of questions on
   District of Columbia laws pertaining to the practice of physical therapy
   including the Act, this chapter, and chapters 40 and 41 of this title. The
   passing score of the District examination shall be determined by the Board.

   8204.8. An applicant for licensure who does not pass either examination on the
   first attempt shall seek and obtain Board approval for any subsequent attempts
   to retake the examination. Before the Board may approve an applicant for
   subsequent testing beyond three (3) attempts, an applicant shall submit proof
   satisfactory to the Board of having completed any remediation as determined by
   the Board.

   8204.9. If the Board determines that an applicant has engaged in or has
   attempted to engage in conduct that subverts or undermines the integrity of
   either the national examination or the District jurisprudence examination, the
   Board may disqualify the applicant from taking the examinations. Examples of
   such conduct may include, but are not limited to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Utilizing in any manner recalled or memorized examination questions;
   
   
   
   (b)	Failing to comply with all test center security procedures;
   
   
   
   (c)	Attempting to communicate with other examinees during the test; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Copying or sharing examination questions or answers or portions of
   questions or answers.

   8204.10. All occurrences of any violation set forth in ยง 8204.9 shall be
   recorded in the official records of the Board. Board action may include, but
   is not limited to the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Disqualifying test results of the applicant&#8217;s examinations;
   
   
   
   (b)	Disqualifying the applicant, permanently or for a specified period of
   time, from eligibility for the examinations;
   
   
   
   (c)	Disqualifying the applicant, permanently or for a specified period of
   time, from eligibility for licensure; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Revocation, suspension, or imposition of probationary conditions on a
   license issued to the applicant.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 8802 (August 15, 2008).
