                                  DC REGULATIONS

REVIEW OF APPLICATION; APPROVAL OR DENIAL (ยง 24-3504)

3504.1. The Public Space Committee or its designee shall review all public
   space permit applications of intercity bus service operators to occupy the
   public right-of-way for loading or unloading passengers.

   3504.2. In determining whether an intercity bus service public space permit
   shall be granted, the Public Space Committee shall consider the following
   factors:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Direct impact on vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The intercity bus service schedule, peak hour concentration, and anticipated
   traffic conditions;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The proposed size of the passenger loading zone;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The number of passengers expected to board or disembark at any given time;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The anticipated impact on nearby public transit systems; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any other effect of the proposed operations in public space on public health
   and safety and the efficient and safe operation of the existing transportation
   network, including pedestrian, vehicle, and all other modes of transportation.

   3504.3. Notwithstanding ยง 3504.2, the Public Space Committee shall not grant
   a public space permit to conduct intercity bus operations at the following
   locations:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   On a block containing a predominately residential building on either side of
   the block; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The same side of a block that contains an area designated as a Metro bus or
   Circulator bus zone.

   3504.4. If two (2) or more applicants apply for the same location, the Public
   Space Committee shall encourage the applicants to enter into a written
   agreement to share the space.  If the applicants cannot reach an agreement,
   the Department shall decide which applicant shall have exclusive use of the
   location based on the following criteria:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Historic usage of the location; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The order the applications were received by the Public Space Committee.

   3504.5. The Public Space Committee shall notify the intercity bus service
   operator and the Department in writing whether the application for a public
   space permit is approved, including any conditions imposed on the intercity
   bus service operator by the Public Space Committee, or denied.

   3504.6. If the public space permit is approved, the intercity bus service
   operator shall provide payment of all associated fees, and file proof of the
   required insurance and indemnification with the Department.

   3504.7. If the public space permit is denied, the Public Space Committee shall
   provide an explanation for the denial.
   
   
   
   3504.8 	If the public space permit is denied, and the intercity bus company
   had been operating at the location while the application was being reviewed,
   the intercity bus company must cease operation at the location immediately.

   3504.9. After the intercity bus service operator meets the requirements of ยง
   3504.6, the Department shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	 Issue a permit to the intercity bus service operator; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Post signs delineating the curb space and designating the hour(s) of
   operation and day(s) of the week for each approved intercity bus service
   passenger loading zone.  The signs shall prohibit parking during the hour(s)
   and day(s) approved for intercity bus service passenger loading and unloading.

   3504.10. The permit issued by the Department shall be valid for one (1) year
   after the date of issuance, unless earlier cancelled, suspended, or revoked,
   and may be renewed pursuant to ยง 3507.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 5323, 5329 (June 24,
   2011).
