                                  DC REGULATIONS

PUBLIC NOTICE OF APPLICATION (ยง 24-3502)

3502.1. Within five (5) calendar days after filing an application, the
   applicant shall give notice of the application to the adjacent property
   owner(s) and to the property owners on either side of the adjacent property
   owner(s).  Notice shall be provided by certified mail or other similar method
   that ensures date of delivery. The notice shall include a full copy of the
   submitted public space permit application, provided, that only one (1) copy of
   each photographic that is part of the application need be provided, and the
   contact information provided by the Department for acceptance of comments on
   the application.

   3502.2. Within five (5) calendar days after filing an application, the
   applicant shall deliver notice of the application by hand to the operator of
   each business in a building that is located on property that is immediately
   adjacent to the proposed passenger loading zone, if the business can be
   accessed directly from the sidewalk without entry into a common area of the
   building.  The notice shall include a full copy of the submitted public space
   permit application, provided, that only one (1) copy of each photograph that
   is part of the application need be provided, and the contact information
   provided by the Department for acceptance of comments on the application. 
   Notice need not be provided to any business that cannot be accessed directly
   from the sidewalk.

   3502.3. Within five (5) calendar days after filing an application, the
   operator shall post signs provided by the Department on at least one (1) sign
   pole or streetlight that is immediately adjacent to the curb where the
   intercity bus service passenger loading zone will be located.  If no sign pole
   or streetlight is directly adjacent to the curb where the intercity bus
   service passenger loading zone will be located, the intercity bus operator may
   post the sign on the nearest sign pole or streetlight.  The operator shall
   laminate the signs or protect the signs in another manner from the weather. 
   The operator shall take all reasonable steps necessary to ensure the signs are
   posted for thirty (30) consecutive calendar days.

   3502.4. Within five (5) calendar days after providing the required notice as
   specified in this section, the applicant shall file with the Department an
   affidavit verifying that the applicant provided each notice required in this
   section.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 5323, 5327 (June 24,
   2011).
