                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION FOR PUBLIC SPACE PERMIT BY INTERCITY BUS SERVICE OPERATORS (§
24-3501)

3501.1. An intercity bus service operator seeking to occupy the public
   right-of-way shall submit to the Department a public space permit application
   and application fee, as specified in section 225 of this Title.  The
   application shall be submitted on a form provided by the Director.
   
   
   
   3501.2 	An intercity bus operator already operating at the time these
   regulations become effective shall have sixty (60) days from the effective
   date of the final rulemaking to submit an application for use of public space
   for intercity bus loading and unloading.

   3501.3. If an intercity bus service operator seeks to use more than one (1)
   location for loading and unloading passengers from the public right-of-way, a
   separate application shall be filed for each location requested by the
   operator.  A separate application fee shall also be required for each
   location.  If approved, a separate permit shall be issued for each location.

   3501.4. Each completed public space permit application shall include the
   following information:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The corporate name, mailing address, email address, web site, and telephone
   number of the intercity bus service operator;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The name, mailing address, email address, web site, and telephone number of
   the intercity bus service operator’s contact person, who shall be located
   within thirty (30) miles from the U.S. Capitol Building;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The name, mailing address, email address, web site, and telephone number of
   the operator’s agent for service of process, who shall be located in the
   District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A valid U.S. Department of Transportation number and interstate operating
   authority;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A copy of the intercity bus service operator’s liability insurance
   certificate that meets the requirements listed in § 3509.2;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Six (6) photographic-quality color copies each of three (3) eight inch by ten
   inch (8″ x 10″) color photographs of the public space, including the
   sidewalk, curb space, and the roadway, of and adjacent to the proposed
   passenger loading zone.  The three (3) photographs shall show the following
   views:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Frontal view from roadway;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Sharp angle right side view along sidewalk or curb; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Sharp angle left side view along sidewalk or curb;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Six (6) photographic-quality color copies of eight inch by ten inch (8″ x
   10″) color photographs of  any signs designating parking, standing, or
   stopping prohibitions in or within ten feet (10 ft.) of the proposed passenger
   loading zone;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Six (6) copies of a schematic drawing of the proposed passenger loading zone,
   to scale and with dimensions.  The schematic drawing shall show the proposed
   intercity bus passenger loading zone, the roadway and sidewalk between the
   nearest intersections on either side of the proposed intercity bus passenger
   loading zone, and the proposed public space required for passenger assembly,
   including any fixtures and signage proposed to be installed by the intercity
   bus service operator.  In addition, the schematic drawing shall show all
   existing fixtures in the public space between the nearest intersections on
   either side of the proposed intercity bus passenger loading zone including
   Metro bus and Circulator bus stops and bus stop zones, Metrorail station
   entrances and Metrorail elevators, vault covers and manholes, fire hydrants,
   trees and tree boxes, signs (including their content) and sign posts, street
   lights and traffic signals, sidewalk and roadway vendors, driveways, alleys,
   and other curb cuts, marked loading zones and building entrances, bike racks,
   parking meters, designated bike lanes in the roadway, and existing curb ramps,
   roadway, and crosswalk markings or any other similar public safety or
   accessibility designation;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A proposal for orderly queuing of waiting passengers so that pedestrian
   movement along the sidewalk will not be obstructed and so that pedestrian
   movement from the sidewalk into adjacent buildings will not be impeded;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   A proposed trash management plan for the removal of trash created by waiting
   or arriving passengers;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The proposed intercity bus service schedule, including all regularly scheduled
   departure and arrival times;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The hours of the day and the days of the week for which the applicant seeks to
   occupy the intercity bus passenger loading zone (fractions of an hour are not
   permitted); and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any other information that the Director requires to evaluate the application.
   
   
   
   3501.5  	The Department will provide the intercity bus service operator with
   contact information of a Department representative who will accept comments on
   the application.  The contact information shall be included by the applicant
   in all notices to the public.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 5323, 5325 (June 24,
   2011).
