                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROGRAM DIRECTOR (ยง 29-702)

702.1. The provider shall appoint one (1) of the full-time professional staff
   members as the Program Director.

   702.2. The Program Director in any day treatment program shall have at least a
   Bachelor&#8217;s Degree from an accredited college or university and shall
   meet one (1) or more of the following criteria by the patient population being
   served in the facilities:
   
   
   
   (a)	For a DTP serving elderly persons, the Program Director shall have had a
   minimum of one (1) or more years of experience working in an adult or elderly
   social or health program;
   
   
   
   (b)	For the developmentally disabled programs, which includes programs for the
   mentally retarded and may or may not include programs for individuals with
   mental disorders, the Program Director shall be a qualified mental retardation
   professional with experience in handling maladaptive behavior; or
   
   
   
   (c)	For mental health treatment programs for individuals with mental disorders
   and which may include the developmentally disabled, the Program Director shall
   be a mental health professional with experience or training, or both, which
   familiarized him or her with the characteristics and needs of mental health
   clients whose conditions require intensive service.

   702.3. For exceptionally qualified individuals, the Department of Human
   Services may waive the experience requirements set forth in ยง702.2.

   702.4. The Program Director shall be responsible for the development and
   implementation of the program and organizational policies, goals, and
   objectives.

   702.5. The Program Director shall be responsible for fiscal administration of
   the program, including billing, budget preparation, and required financial
   reports.

   702.6. The Program Director shall hire and supervise appropriate staff, and
   shall arrange for volunteers and students if and when indicated.

   702.7. The Program Director shall assume the role of coordinator of the
   admission process.

   702.8. The Program Director shall provide for staff orientation and on-going
   in-service training.

   702.9. The Program Director shall also be responsible for the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ensuring implementation of each participant&#8217;s individualized plan of
   care;
   
   
   
   (b)	Educating community agencies and groups on the goals of the day treatment
   program, the target population, and the service provided;
   
   
   
   (c)	Responding to the reporting requirements of the Deparment of Human
   Services; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Developing and establishing a quality assurance system for evaluating
   program effectiveness and the effectiveness of individual care plans and
   interventions.

   702.10. The provider shall appoint one (1) of the professional staff members
   as Assistant Program Director to act in the absence of the Program Director.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 31 DCR 326 (January 27, 1984).
