                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMISSION PROCEDURES (ยง 29-712)

712.1. Prior to an individual&#8217;s first day in a day treatment facility,
   the provider shall obtain the following information in a written statement
   from a physician:
   
   
   
   (a)	The individual&#8217;s medical history, which shall indicate a physical
   examination has taken place within the past three (3) months; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Assessment of the general medical condition, restrictions on activity,
   diet modifications, any instructions relative to health care, absence of
   infectious diseases, a list of current medications and treatment, and any
   specific instructions for participants who will be enrolled in the specialized
   day treatment programs.

   712.2. A pre-admission interview shall be conducted with the individual and
   his or her family, if applicable, by a professional member or members of the
   day treatment program staff to provide information on health characteristics,
   psycho-social condition, nutritional habits of the individual, and other
   relevant data pertaining to the home or community support system.

   712.3. The pre-admission interview shall acquaint the individual and his or
   her family with the services, activities, and requirements of the day
   treatment program.

   712.4. Upon admission of an individual into the day treatment program, the
   provider shall conclude a written agreement with the individual or, if
   appropriate, with the individual&#8217;s legal guardian.

   712.5. The agreement required by ยง712.4 shall specify the basic services
   offered to the individual by the provider, any financial obligations of the
   individual by the provider, any financial obligations of the individual and
   his or her family to the program, and any special arrangements, such as
   participation in the program other than full-time.

   712.6. The provider shall also specify the following in the pre-admission
   agreement:
   
   
   
   (a)	The days and hours during which the program operates;
   
   
   
   (b)	A schedule of holidays when the program is closed; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The announcement procedures for unexpected closing of the program due to
   disaster or inclement weather.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 31 DCR 326 (January 27, 1984).
