                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROGRAM SERVICES (ยง 29-710)

710.1. The services described in this section and ยง711 shall be available in
   all day treatment programs.

   710.2. Nursing services shall be provided for the coordination and
   implementation of the individual care plan. Health counseling and supervision
   of maintenance therapy are the major responsibilities of nursing services.

   710.3. Nutrition services shall be provided in accordance with the provisions
   of ยง711.

   710.4. The physician shall supervise the delivery of all required medical
   services to ensure that needed services are provided by appropriate personnel
   consistent with each participant&#8217;s care plan.

   710.5. Day treatment programs shall provide individual and group activity
   programs that offer social, recreational, and educational events designed to
   improve each participant&#8217;s self-awareness and level of functioning. The
   interest and therapeutic needs of each individual participant shall be
   considered in the development of activity programs.

   710.6. Day treatment programs, under the overall supervision of the registered
   nurse, shall provide personal care services as necessary, and shall offer
   training and assistance in the activities of daily living, including accident
   prevention and use of special aides.

   710.7. A social worker or other appropriate staff member shall provide
   individual and group counseling services to participants and their families.
   Counselors shall offer assistance with personal resources, family and
   adjustment problems.

   710.8. If specialized counseling is not available at the time of need in the
   day treatment program center, the participant or the participant&#8217;s
   family shall be referred to appropriate community resources.

   710.9. Each program shall have an emergency plan that includes written
   agreements regarding emergency room care, assurance of transportation to a
   facility providing emergency care, and a written procedure covering immediate
   care of patient, persons to be notified, and reports to be prepared.

   710.10. At least one (1) staff member trained in first aid shall be on duty at
   all times. At minimum, first aid supplies recommended by the Red Cross in
   Standard First Aid and Personal Safety shall be readily available.
   
   
   
   710.11 A day treatment program serving the mentally retarded or persons with
   mental disorders shall also provide restorative, habilitation, or maintenance
   therapy services.

   710.12. The provider shall establish and implement an outreach plan designed
   to reach the appropriate client population and to inform the community at
   large of the program&#8217;s services.

   710.13. The community outreach plan shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A program brochure;
   
   
   
   (b)	Letters to physicians, health facilities, senior centers, and social
   service agencies informing them of the services provided by the program;
   
   
   
   (c)	Meetings with community service agencies and community leaders to develop
   referral mechanisms;
   
   
   
   (d)	Notices posted in community facilities; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Open houses held for the general public and community groups.

   710.14. At a minimum, the provider shall consult with the following, as
   appropriate:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Long-Term Care Administration, Department of Human Services;
   
   
   
   (b)	Mental health agencies and clinics; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Agencies and facilities for the developmentally disabled.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 31 DCR 326 (January 27, 1984).
