                                  DC REGULATIONS

PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENTS (ยง 29-706)

706.1. A day treatment program provider desiring to participate as a service
   provider in the D.C. Medicaid Program shall be certified by the Department of
   Human Services as fully in compliance with all of the requirements set forth
   in this chapter.

   706.2. Each program shall be operated Monday through Friday, except holidays,
   for eight (8) hours each day.

   706.3. If a program is located outside the District, and certified for
   participation in the Medicaid program of the state in which it is located, the
   Department may accept that state&#8217;s certification as adequate for the
   provider&#8217;s participation in the D.C. Medicaid Program.

   706.4. An application for certification shall be filed on forms provided by
   the Department of Human Services.

   706.5. The application shall contain, but not be limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Name, address, and telephone number of the program;
   
   
   
   (b)	Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the provider(s) of the program.
   If the provider is a corporation, the application shall include the names and
   addresses of all persons having a five percent (5%) or more ownership
   interest; and names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all corporation
   officers and directors;
   
   
   
   (c)	Names of the Program Director; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Name of the staff physician.

   706.6. The site of a day treatment program shall conform to all federal and
   District laws and codes pertaining to health and fire safety, sanitation, and
   as appropriate, food preparation and service, and ยง504 of Title VI of the
   Civil Rights Act of 1962.

   706.7. Program policies and procedures shall be in compliance with Title VI of
   the Civil Rights Act of 1962 and, as appropriate, federal and District laws
   and regulations relating to drug procurement and distribution, disposal of
   medications and controlled substances, and communicable and reportable
   diseases.

   706.8. Day treatment programs may be operated in free standing facilities or
   in part of existing facilities such as nursing homes, senior centers,
   hospitals, or churches.

   706.9. If a program is operated within an existing facility, there shall be a
   written agreement allowing the DTP adequate space during its hour of
   operation. The written agreement shall specify time of use and obligations of
   each party regarding maintenance of space, use of equipment, security, fiscal
   and personnel services, and other shared services.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 31 DCR 326 (January 27, 1984).
