                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPLICATION PROCEDURE (ยง 24-1102)

1102.1. To obtain a Step 1 streetscape review of a streetscape plan, an
   applicant shall submit an application on a form provided by the Director and
   ten (10) copies of the streetscape plan as part of the public space permit
   application process.

   1102.2. The streetscape plan submitted for the Step 1 streetscape review
   should show, if known, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Sidewalk treatment including proposed materials and paving patterns;
   
   
   
   (b)	The location and type of all existing and proposed streetlights, traffic
   signals, parking signs, other traffic control devices and parking meters;
   
   
   
   (c)	The location of existing and proposed tree spaces, tree species and
   proposed tree planting details;
   
   
   
   (d)	The location, design and dimension of all existing and proposed driveways
   and curb cuts, sewer and water connections, utility lines, and oil tank
   openings;
   
   
   
   (e)	The length of the radii for all driveways, alleys, and street corners;
   
   
   
   (f)	Vaults or any other underground projection below public space, sidewalks
   or alleys;
   
   
   
   (g)	Metrobus stops, bus shelters, and Metrorail station entrances;
   
   
   
   (h)	The location and size of pedestrian entrances, including, but not limited
   to, store entrances and through-building passageways;
   
   
   
   (i)	The size and location of shop windows;
   
   
   
   (j)	The location and design of loading berths, taxi, bus, and other vehicle
   queuing, waiting areas, or other drop-off or pick-up areas and facilities. The
   plans for loading berths shall include the number of berths and details of
   access to the berths;
   
   
   
   (k)	Top of curb profiles, alley profiles, sidewalk cross slopes, and final
   street grades;
   
   
   
   (l)	The location of street amenities;
   
   
   
   (m)	Elevation of any portion of the building facing a street; and
   
   
   
   (n)	Handicap ramp locations and details.

   1102.3. To obtain a Step 2 Streetscape review of a streetscape plan, an
   applicant shall submit ten (10) copies of the streetscape plan as part of the
   public space permit application process.

   1102.4. The streetscape plan submitted for the Step 2 Streetscape review shall
   show the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The actual paving materials, their design and support details, landscaping
   treatment and planting details, final sidewalk grades and any streetscape
   amenities with necessary details for installation, and drainage details;
   
   
   
   (b)	Design and location of the sidewalk level streetscape elements, including
   but not limited to, the designated tree species, tree box plantings, specific
   designs, number and location of any streetscape hardware, pedestrian
   amenities, and decorative fixtures; and
   
   
   
   (c)	The treatment of vault covers.

   1102.5. Applicant may, subject to approval by the Director, submit a combined
   streetscape plan that shows the elements required by subsections 1102.2 and
   1102.4. A combined streetscape plan shall be submitted pursuant to the time
   period set for a Step 1 Streetscape plan.

   1102.6. The applicant shall clearly indicate on the submitted streetscape plan
   any variation or exception to the standards set forth in this chapter and the
   applicant shall provide a letter describing the variation or the exception and
   its underlying rationale.

   1102.7. All drawings for a Step 1 or a Step 2 Streetscape review shall be
   submitted to the Executive Secretary, Downtown Streetscape Review Committee,
   Department of Public Works, seventh floor, 2000 14th Street, NW, Washington,
   D.C.
   
   
   
   	Source: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7117 (September 1, 2000).
