                                  DC REGULATIONS

REVIEW OF STREETSCAPE PLANS (ยง 24-1103)

1103.1. The Director shall review the submitted streetscape plans to ensure
   that the submitted streetscape plan and the application have all the required
   and necessary information.

   1103.2. The Director shall notify the applicant within five (5) working days
   of the adequacy of the information included in the submitted streetscape plan.
   When necessary, the streetscape plan shall be returned to the applicant for
   the inclusion of any information that is required or necessary.

   1103.3. The applicant may request, and the Director may grant, upon good cause
   shown, that the streetscape plan be reviewed in an expeditious manner.

   1103.4. The Director shall convene a Committee to review a submitted
   streetscape plan and to provide a recommendation to the Director on whether
   the Director should approve or disapprove the submitted streetscape plan.

   1103.5. The Committee shall be appointed by the Director and shall consist of
   representatives of the Design, Engineering and Construction Administration,
   Parking Services Administration and the Office of Policy and Planning.

   1103.6. The Director shall request that a representative from the District of
   Columbia Office of Planning, the American Institute of Architects and the
   American Society of Landscape Architects serve as advisory members to the
   Committee.

   1103.7. The Committee shall, within three (3) weeks of the submission of the
   streetscape plan, review the streetscape plan to determine if the streetscape
   plan conforms to the requirements of this chapter and recommend to the
   Director whether the streetscape plan (and any requested variation or
   exception to the standards) should be approved, disapproved, or modified.

   1103.8. Variations or exceptions may be recommended for approval if the
   applicant has demonstrated that the following conditions (a) through (c) have
   been satisfied or that condition (d) has been adequately demonstrated:
   
   
   
   (a)	The exception or variation will improve or raise the quality of the
   streetscape materials or improve or raise the quality of the design of the
   public space;
   
   
   
   (b)	The exception or variation is compatible with the adjoining sidewalk and
   public space;
   
   
   
   (c)	That if the project is an historic landmark or in an historic district,
   the exception or variation is compatible with the historic landmark or
   historic district; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Compliance with these rules or any provision thereof imposes an undue
   hardship on the applicant.

   1103.9. Except as provided for in subsection 1103.10, the applicant shall be
   notified within five (5) business days of the date the Director receives the
   Committees&#8217;s recommendation. Written notification of the decision shall
   be transmitted to the applicant within ten (10) business days of the
   Director&#8217;s decision.

   1103.10. When the Committee recommends disapproval of the submitted
   streetscape plan, or of an element of the plan, the Executive Secretary of the
   Committee shall notify the applicant and arrange a meeting between the
   applicant and members of the Committee, as deemed necessary.

   1103.11. When applicable, the applicant shall submit an amended streetscape
   plan to the Committee. The Committee shall consider the amended streetscape
   plan pursuant to subsection 1103.7.

   1103.12. When appropriate, copies of the Director&#8217;s decision shall be
   forwarded to the Public Space Permits and Records Division, D.C. Department of
   Public Works.

   1103.13. Following notification of Step 2 approval by the Director, the
   applicant shall submit three (3) copies of the approved streetscape plan to
   the Director.
   
   
   
   	Source: Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 7117 (September 1, 2000).
