                                  DC REGULATIONS

MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF LIBRARY TRUSTEES (ยง 19-905)

905.1. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public in accordance
   with D.C. Code ยง 1-1504(a) (1999 Repl.) except as provided in ยง 905.5.

   905.2. The Board of Trustees shall hold at least eleven (11) regular meetings
   each year on dates regularly recurring on a monthly basis. The schedule of the
   regular Board meetings shall be proposed by the President of the Board and
   approved by the Board. The Board may decide not to have a regular monthly
   meeting in June, July, or August. Notices of regular monthly meetings
   (including the Annual Meeting) shall be mailed to each member of the Board at
   least five (5) calendar days before the meeting.

   905.3. The President of the Board may, and upon the request of any three (3)
   members shall, call a Special Meeting.  At least three (3) days notice
   (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) shall be given in writing,
   stating the purpose of the meeting. No business except that relating to the
   specified purpose shall be transacted.

   905.4. At the regular meeting held in the month of December of each year,
   which shall be called the Annual Meeting, the officers of the Board, with the
   exception of the Director (Secretary and Treasurer of the Board), shall be
   elected. Officers so elected shall serve for a twelve (12) month term from
   January through December of the succeeding year.

   905.5. The President of the Board may call executive meetings as needed for
   the purpose of having a free exchange of ideas for the members to debate among
   themselves the ramifications and potential impact upon the public of a series
   of alternative decisions without taking a final vote which ultimately will be
   the decision of the Board. At executive meetings no matter may be formally or
   informally decided if it is a matter concerning which the Board foreseeably
   will take some official action at a future public meeting.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 7488, 7490-91 (October 14,
   1988).
