                                  DC REGULATIONS

BACK-UP CAREGIVER (§ 29-6033)

6033.1. The foster parent shall identify a back-up caregiver to provide
   short-term overnight care for the child in the event of an emergency requiring
   the foster parent to be away from the foster home.

   6033.2. Unless the back-up caregiver is licensed to provide care to a foster
   child by the District of Columbia or Maryland, the back-up caregiver shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be twenty-one (21) years of age or older;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have knowledge of, interest in, and regard for the principles of good
   child care and understanding of the back-up caregiver’s responsibility in
   providing care for a foster child; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Have the suitability, stamina, and physical and mental health to meet the
   demands of serving as the back-up caregiver for a foster child.
   
   
   
   6033.3  	The back-up caregiver and all adults residing in the back-up
   caregiver’s home shall obtain a child protection register check.
   
   
   
   6033.4 	If a child protection register check reveals that a back-up caregiver
   or an adult residing in the back-up caregiver’s home is identified as the
   abuser or neglector in a substantiated child abuse or neglect case, CFSA shall
   review the results and determine whether the back-up caregiver is able to
   provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the child.
   
   
   
   6033.5 	The back-up caregiver and all adults residing in the individual’s
   home shall obtain a criminal record check that is performed by the Federal
   Bureau of Investigation and by:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Metropolitan Police Department, if the individual as an adult resided,
   worked, or attended school in the District at any time in the past five (5)
   years; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The state’s law enforcement agency, if the individual as an adult
   resided, worked, or attended school outside of the District at   any time in
   the past five (5) years.

   6033.6. If a criminal record check reveals that an individual has a felony
   criminal conviction, CFSA shall review the results and determine whether the
   back-up caregiver is able to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of
   the child.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 10669, 10672 (September 7, 2012).
