                                  DC REGULATIONS

FOSTER PARENT REQUIREMENTS (§ 29-6001)

6001.1. An agency shall select and maintain as foster parents individuals who
   have the following characteristics:
   
   
   
   (a)	Knowledge of, interest in, and regard for the principles of good child
   care and understanding of the foster parent&#8217;s responsibility in
   providing care for a foster child;
   
   
   
   (b)	The willingness to work with CFSA and agency personnel in the best
   interest of the foster child;
   
   
   
   (c)	Maturity and personality characteristics which:
   
   
   
   (1)	Make it possible to provide an emotional climate in which a foster child
   can benefit during temporary care;
   
   
   
   (2)	Create an atmosphere in which social skills can be enriched;
   
   
   
   (3)	Help a foster child to understand placement in foster care and the
   child&#8217;s own feelings about the placement; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Help maintain family ties through regular and consistent family contact in
   accordance with a foster child&#8217;s case plan;
   
   
   
   (d)	The flexibility to understand and work with lifestyles different from the
   foster parent&#8217;s;
   
   
   
   (e)	The capacity to value, respect, appreciate, and educate a foster child
   regarding the child&#8217;s racial, ethnic, religious, and cultural heritage;
   
   
   
   (f)	The capacity to understand that it is in the best interest of a foster
   child of mixed racial parentage to have healthy multiracial experiences;
   
   
   
   (g)	The suitability and stamina to meet the demands of caring for growing
   foster children;
   
   
   
   (h)	The willingness to support and encourage a foster child&#8217;s
   educational progress, and take an active role by attending school conferences
   and similar activities whenever possible;
   
   
   
   (i)	The ability to give a foster child the needed care and attention;
   
   
   
   (j)	The ability to provide a nurturing family life and meet the needs of a
   foster child, notwithstanding any employment outside the home; and
   
   
   
   (k)	Awareness of the way in which a child needs family life to grow and learn,
   and the ability to provide a foster child with the skills and values which a
   parent customarily provides.

   6001.2. A foster parent shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of age.

   6001.3. A foster parent and all household members shall be in good health as
   documented by a health examination within the previous twenty-four (24)
   months.

   6001.4. If a foster parent or household member has symptoms or a history of
   physical or mental health problems or has recently been under the care of a
   physician for either of the above, CFSA or the agency may require the
   individual to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Undergo additional medical examinations of a general or specific nature;
   or
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide a written statement by the examining or treating physician to the
   effect that the health problem poses no threat to the foster child.

   6001.5. A foster parent and all household members shall be free of disease in
   communicable form, as certified by a physician. Each child in the household
   shall be in compliance with the immunization requirements of the jurisdiction
   in which the foster home is located.

   6001.6. A foster parent shall have sufficient family income to meet the
   reasonable living needs of his or her own family without relying on foster
   care board and care payments.

   6001.7. A criminal records check and a child protection register clearance
   shall be performed as set forth in §§ 6008 and 6009.
   
   
   
   6001.8 		A foster parent shall possess current American Red Cross Standard
   First Aid and infant, adult, and child Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)
   certifications before being licensed to care for a foster child.
   
   
   
   6001.9 		The CPR and American Red Cross Standard First Aid
   certification	training shall be approved by the American Red Cross, American
   Heart Association or the District of Columbia Department of Health.
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 6617 (July 27, 2001); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 10669 (September 7, 2012).
