                                  DC REGULATIONS

AGREEMENT WITH OTHER AGENCIES (ยง 29-2906)

2906.1. The Department of Human Services may enter into agreements with
   District, other public or private agencies for the provision of protective
   services.

   2906.2. The designated agency shall comply with all applicable procedures
   related to the APS program.

   2906.3. The designated agency shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provide a description of the investigative or protective services to be
   provided;
   
   
   
   (b)	Indicate the areas of the city it intends to cover;
   
   
   
   (c)	Indicate the number of cases it intends to accept and serve;
   
   
   
   (d)	Indicate the agency or client eligibility such as age, and income, if any;
   
   
   
   (e)	State the staffing patterns and qualifications of the proposed adult
   protective services workers, including bilingual capabilities;
   
   
   
   (f)	State the cost of services to the District government, if any;
   
   
   
   (g)	Indicate the agency fee schedule, if any;
   
   
   
   (h)	Indicate the capability of the agency to provide proposed services;
   
   
   
   (i)	Explain how confidentiality of clients will be ensured, and how case
   records and information will be safeguarded; and
   
   
   
   (j)	Provide any other relevant information which may be requested by DHS.

   2906.4. The designated agency shall agree to accept all referred cases as
   defined by D.C. Law 5-156 which do not exceed its limits for number of cases,
   and which meet the criteria that have been proposed by the agency and accepted
   by DHS as outlined in the contract.

   2906.5. The agency shall set the following criteria for social workers who
   provide protective services:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be licensed to practice social work in the District of Columbia; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Have three (3) years experience in the provision of adult protective
   services and under the supervision of a licensed social worker.

   2906.6. The agency may use paraprofessional staff to supplement the work of
   the licensed social worker or experienced caseworker so long as the
   para-professional staff receives professional supervision and guidelines.

   2906.7. The Department of Human Services shall make known to agencies
   interested in designation what the need is for investigation and protective
   services, and when District government funds are available to contract with
   agencies for the provision of the services.

   2906.8. The Director of DHS shall receive requests for designation and forward
   all requests for agency designation to the Adult Protective Services (APS)
   Branch, Social Services Division, Family Services Administration, Commission
   on Social Services for review and recommendation.

   2906.9. The Director shall make his or her decision based on the review of
   this recommendation.

   2906.10. The Department of Human Services shall retain the responsibility for
   receiving all reports, after which it will determine who will perform the
   necessary investigations and provide the required protective services in
   accordance with the contracts executed between the Department and the
   designated agencies.

   2906.11. Agencies interested in designation shall have the responsibility to
   submit a written request to the Director of the Department of Human Services,
   which shall address the criteria for designated agencies described in ยง
   2906.2(b) through (j), 2906.3 and 2906.4.

   2906.12. Agencies to be designated shall enter into a contract with the
   Department agreeing to adhere to the criteria outlined in ยง 2906.3 through
   2906.5, and all other applicable legislation.

   2906.13. The Director, upon recommendation of the Adult Protective Services
   Branch, may terminate the contract if the following conditions exist:
   
   
   
   (a)	When the criteria are not sustained;
   
   
   
   (b)	For the convenience of the Department;
   
   
   
   (c)	When the contractor is in default; or
   
   
   
   (d)	When the designated agency requests termination in writing with thirty
   (30) days advance notice and follows the appropriate contracting procedures as
   outlined in District law.

   2906.14. The designated agency shall provide reports as requested and required
   by the Department, and shall allow the Department access to client records.

   2906.15. Any fees that the designated agency charges for services shall be
   consistent with the fee charging policy of the Department of Human Services
   and specified within the request for designation.

   2906.16. The designated agency shall have the responsibility to ensure that
   the contract contains a provision outlining the procedure for transferring
   cases in the event that the contract is terminated or not renewed and a
   provision regarding the final disposition of files.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 6646, 6650 (October 19, 1990).
