                                  DC REGULATIONS

POLICE ACCOMPANIMENT OF ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES WORKER (APS) (ยง 29-2903)

2903.1. An APS worker may request, when appropriate, that the Metropolitan
   Police Department assign a police officer to accompany him or her while
   conducting an initial or follow-up investigation to determine the need for
   protective services or while providing protective services.

   2903.2. Appropriate circumstances under which the police shall accompany an
   APS worker shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	When a report received by the Department of Human Services alleges the
   existence of an immediate substantial risk of life threatening harm to an
   adult in need of protective services;
   
   
   
   (b)	When an APS worker articulates to the police a basis for suspecting that
   an adult in need of protective services or the APS worker is in danger of
   bodily harm or violence from any source;
   
   
   
   (c)	When a court order has been issued which authorizes protective services
   and the APS worker articulates a basis for suspecting resistance to the court
   order or a threat to the APS worker or the client; or
   
   
   
   (d)	When any other circumstances exist in which the police agree that police
   presence may be needed.

   2903.3. When a police officer believes that his or her presence is no longer
   necessary for the safe and effective performance of the duties of an APS
   worker, the police officer shall properly notify the APS worker before leaving
   the scene.

   2903.4. If a police officer is in the company of an APS worker, and a
   situation arises which involves an immediate, substantial risk of life
   threatening harm to any person, it shall be the responsibility of the police
   officer to take such action as he or she believes appropriate to eliminate or
   control the risk.

   2903.5. The APS worker shall curtail further action at the scene until the
   danger described in ยง 2903.4 has been eliminated or controlled.

   2903.6. In the event that police action or the efforts of the APS worker are
   unable to resolve a life threatening situation, the APS worker shall
   immediately refer the matter to D.C. Corporation Counsel who shall immediately
   initiate appropriate Court proceedings.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 37 DCR 6646, 6648 (October 19, 1990).
