                                  DC REGULATIONS

EVIDENCE IN EVIDENTIARY HEARINGS (§ 1-508)

508.1. Evidence shall be received in conformity with D.C. Code § 1-1509(b).

   508.2. The proponent of a rule or order shall have the burden of proof.

   508.3. Any oral and any documentary evidence may be received, but the hearing
   committee shall exclude irrelevant, immaterial, and unduly repetitious
   evidence.

   508.4. Every party shall have the right to present in person or by counsel his
   or her case or defense by oral and documentary evidence, to submit rebuttal
   evidence, and to conduct cross-examinations as may be required for a full and
   true disclosure of the facts. The fact that a party did not submit evidence to
   the Director prior to the Director’s decision shall not be grounds for
   excluding that evidence in an evidentiary hearing.

   508.5. Where any decision of a hearing committee in a contested case rests on
   official notice of a material fact not appearing in the evidence in the
   record, any party to the case shall on timely request be afforded an
   opportunity to show the contrary.

   508.6. If any part of the record in any other proceeding previously held
   before a committee of the Board, or part of the record in any criminal or
   civil action (including proceedings before any administrative agency) is
   offered in evidence, a certified true copy of that part shall be presented to
   the committee in the form of an exhibit unless either of the following
   requirements is satisfied:
   
   
   
   (a)	The record is specified in such manner as to be readily identified, and
   the person offering the record agrees to supply copies later or when required
   by the committee; or
   
   
   
   (b)	There is a stipulation that the record may be incorporated by reference
   and the committee directs that incorporation.

   508.7. The parties may, by stipulation in writing filed with the committee,
   agree upon the facts or any portion thereof involved in the appeal. The
   parties may also stipulate the testimony that would be given by a witness if
   the witness were present. The committee, in its discretion, may require
   additional evidence regarding any matter covered by stipulation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 3665 (June 27, 1997),
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 44 DCR
   2934, 2945-46 (May 16, 1997).
