                                  DC REGULATIONS

EVIDENTIARY HEARINGS (§ 1-506)

506.1. When the Constitution, a statute, or a regulation of the Council of the
   District of Columbia or an order of the Mayor requires the Board’s review of
   a matter to take the form of an evidentiary hearing, the hearing shall be
   conducted in accordance with D.C. Code § 1-1509 (1999 Repl.).

   506.2. The hearing committee may sua sponte or at the request of a party
   schedule and conduct a pre-hearing conference to facilitate the evidentiary
   hearing.

   506.3. The Executive Officer shall fix the date and hour of the evidentiary
   hearing after consultation with the hearing committee, the parties, or their
   representatives.

   506.4. The Executive Officer shall give the parties at least fourteen (14)
   days written notice of the date and hour of an evidentiary hearing: Provided,
   that in a case involving an appeal of a notice of violation issued by the
   Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, when in the opinion of the
   Executive Officer the public interest requires a decision on an expedited or
   emergency basis, the Executive Officer shall give the parties at least two (2)
   days telephonic notice of the date and hour of the hearing. A written record
   of telephone notice shall be maintained by the Executive Officer.

   506.5. Except for extraordinary reasons, such as the sudden illness of a party
   or a party’s representative, a scheduled evidentiary hearing shall not be
   delayed by a motion for a continuance unless the motion is filed at least five
   (5) days before the date on which the hearing is to be held, and, in the
   opinion of the hearing committee, sets forth good cause for a continuance.

   506.6. Conflicting engagements of counsel, absence of counsel, or the
   employment of new counsel shall not be regarded as good cause for a
   continuance of the hearing unless set forth in a motion filed promptly after
   notice of the hearing has been given.

   506.7. All testimony at evidentiary hearings before a hearing committee shall
   be under oath or affirmation.

   506.8. After the hearing, and within the time limits established by the
   hearing committee, the parties may submit proposed findings of fact,
   conclusions of law, and an order, and may also submit memoranda of law on
   issues of law arising during the hearing.

   506.9. Decorum and good order shall be maintained at all times during
   hearings, and a hearing committee may, in the enforcement thereof, exclude or
   have removed from the hearing room any person violating any reasonable order
   of the presiding member of the hearing committee.

   506.10. For contumacious conduct or arriving more than thirty (30) minutes
   late, and after having been afforded an opportunity to be heard, the hearing
   committee may bar an attorney from further participation in a hearing.

   506.11. If an attorney has been barred from participating in a hearing, the
   hearing committee may proceed with the hearing if consistent with the due
   process rights of the parties. Otherwise, the hearing committee shall adjourn
   the hearing to give the party whose attorney has been barred an opportunity
   expeditiously to secure new representation.

   506.12. An attorney who has been barred from participating in a hearing may
   seek and the hearing committee may grant reinstatement to participate in the
   hearing on such terms as the hearing committee shall prescribe.

   506.13. A hearing committee shall not permit a reinstatement application under
   § 506.12 to delay the proceedings unduly.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 3665 (June 27, 1997),
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 44 DCR
   2934, 2942-44 (May 16, 1997).
