                                  DC REGULATIONS

MOTIONS AND OTHER PLEADINGS (§ 1-514)

514.1. Except by leave of a hearing committee during a hearing, an application
   for an order or other relief shall be made by filing a written motion. A
   motion shall state with particularity the grounds on which it is based and
   shall clearly set forth the order or relief sought. If a motion is to be
   supported by memoranda, affidavits, or other papers, they shall be attached
   and served with the motion.

   514.2. A copy of each motion, response, opposition, reply or other pleading,
   filed with the Board shall be served on each party separately represented, and
   a certificate of service shall appear at the end of the pleading showing the
   date and method of service.

   514.3. Any party may file a response or opposition to a motion within ten (10)
   days after service of the motion, but the Board may shorten or extend this
   time. The response or opposition shall not include a motion for other
   affirmative relief against the moving party.

   514.4. A reply to a response or opposition may be filed within seven (7) days
   after service of the response or opposition, but the reply shall not reargue
   propositions presented in the motion nor present matters which are not
   strictly in reply to the response or opposition. No further pleading may be
   filed except by leave of the Board for extraordinary cause.

   514.5. Each motion or other pleading shall meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	It shall be typewritten on business size (8 ½ x 11) paper;
   
   
   
   (b)	It shall contain the name and docket number of the case;
   
   
   
   (c)	All typing shall be double-spaced except footnotes and quotations which
   may be single-spaced and indented;
   
   
   
   (d)	It shall be signed by the party on whose behalf it is filed or by that
   party’s representative or attorney; and
   
   
   
   (e)	An original and three (3) copies of each motion or other pleading shall be
   filed with the Board.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 3665 (June 27, 1997),
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 44 DCR
   2934, 2954-55 (May 16, 1997).
