                                  DC REGULATIONS

REVIEW ON THE BASIS OF THE RECORD (§ 1-510)

510.1. Review by a hearing committee shall be on the basis of the record
   established before the Director in the following cases:
   
   
   
   (a)	Where neither the Constitution, nor a statute, nor a regulation adopted by
   the Council of the District of Columbia, nor an order of the Mayor requires
   the Board to hold an evidentiary hearing; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Where a statute, or a regulation adopted by the Council of the District of
   Columbia, or an order of the Mayor requires that review by the Board be
   exclusively on the basis of the record previously established.

   510.2. After the record has been filed pursuant to § 505, the hearing
   committee shall establish a briefing schedule.

   510.3. Briefs shall meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Each brief shall be typewritten on business size (8 ½ x 11) paper;
   
   
   
   (b)	Each brief shall contain the name and docket number of the case;
   
   
   
   (c)	All typing shall be doubled-spaced, except footnotes and quotations which
   may be single-spaced and indented;
   
   
   
   (d)	Each brief shall be signed by the party on whose behalf it is filed or by
   that party’s representative or attorney;
   
   
   
   (e)	Each brief shall contain or be accompanied by a certificate of service
   showing the method and date of service on each party separately represented;
   and
   
   
   
   (f)	An original and three (3) copies of each brief shall be filed with the
   Board.

   510.4. In addition to the requirements set forth in § 510.3, the
   appellant’s brief shall contain the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A table of contents, with page references, and a table of cases
   alphabetically arranged with asterisks placed before the cases chiefly relied
   upon, and statutes, rules, regulations, and other authorities cited, with
   references to the pages of the brief where they are cited;
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement of the issues presented for review;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement of the facts of the case. A statement shall first indicate
   briefly the nature of the case, the course of proceedings, and its disposition
   by the Director. There shall follow a statement of the facts relevant to the
   issues presented for review, with appropriate references to the record.
   
   
   
   (d)	An argument which may be preceded by a summary. The argument shall contain
   the contentions and the reasons therefor, with citations to the authorities,
   statutes, and parts of the record relied on; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A short conclusion stating the precise relief sought.

   510.5. The appellee’s brief shall conform to all the requirements of §
   510.4, except that a statement of the issues or of the facts of the case need
   not be made unless the appellee chooses to do so.

   510.6. The appellant may file a brief in reply to the brief of the appellee,
   and if the appellee has cross-appealed, the appellee may file a brief in reply
   to the response of the appellant to the issues presented by the cross-appeal.
   No further briefs may be filed except by leave of the hearing committee.

   510.7. It shall be the general policy of the Board to permit the parties to
   present oral argument, but any case may, by written stipulation of the
   parties, be submitted on the briefs unless the hearing committee directs the
   parties to present oral argument.

   510.8. When notifying the parties of the date and time of the argument, the
   hearing committee shall specify the time allowed for argument. An appellant
   shall be entitled to present an opening argument; an appellee shall be
   entitled to present an answering argument; and an appellant shall be entitled
   to present a reply argument.

   510.9. Not more than two (2) counsel may be heard for each party in the
   argument of the appeal, except by leave of the hearing committee, upon good
   cause shown.

   510.10. If an appellant fails to file a brief in a timely manner, an appellee
   may move for dismissal of the appeal.

   510.11. If the appellee fails to appear to present argument, the hearing
   committee shall hear argument on behalf of the appellant, if the appellant has
   filed a brief and wishes to present argument. If the appellant fails to
   appear, the hearing committee shall hear argument on behalf of the appellee,
   if the appellee has filed a brief and wishes to present argument. If neither
   party appears, the case shall be decided on the briefs unless the hearing
   committee directs otherwise.

   510.12. If a brief has been filed for the appellant only and no counsel
   appears to present oral argument on behalf of the appellant, the case may be
   regarded as submitted.

   510.13. If no brief has been filed for the appellee, the appellee may be heard
   on oral argument only by permission of the hearing committee.

   510.14. When review is on the basis of the record developed before the
   Director, the hearing committee may affirm, reverse, or modify the order of
   the Director, or may vacate the order and remand the case to the Director for
   further proceedings. The hearing committee may reverse the decision of the
   Director only when the hearing committee concludes that the Director’s
   decision is one or more of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in
   accordance with law;
   
   
   
   (b)	Contrary to constitutional right, power, privilege, or immunity;
   
   
   
   (c)	In excess of statutory jurisdiction, authority, or limitations, or short
   of statutory jurisdiction, authority, or limitations, or short of statutory
   rights;
   
   
   
   (d)	Without observance of procedure required by law; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Unsupported by substantial evidence in the record of the proceedings
   before the hearing committee.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 44 DCR 3665 (June 27, 1997),
   incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 44 DCR
   2934, 2947-50 (May 16, 1997).
