                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE OF ACTION OR INTENDED ACTION (§ 29-5902)

5902.1. CFSA shall send written notice as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	To the recipient of a subsidy, at least ten (10) business days before
   taking the action, if it intends to reduce, suspend, or terminate the subsidy.
   
   
   
   (b)	To an applicant for a subsidy, within twenty (20) business days of its
   decision to deny the subsidy.
   
   
   
   (c)	Within seven (7) calendar days from the date that a report is entered in
   the Child Protection Register, to a person identified in the report as
   responsible for the substantiated allegation of abuse or neglect of the child
   who is the subject of the report.
   
   
   
   (d)	Except as provided by 29 DCMR 60, to the foster home licensee, at least
   ten (10) business days before suspending or revoking a foster home license.
   
   
   
   (e)	To the applicant, within ten business (10) days of its decision not to
   license a foster home.
   
   
   
   (f)	Except as set forth in § 5902.1 (g), to the applicant or licensee, at
   least ten (10) business days of its decision not to license a youth
   residential facility or an independent living program, or to modify, suspend,
   convert or revoke a license to operate a youth residential facility or
   independent living program.
   
   
   
   (g)	To the licensee, immediately, of its decision to suspend or convert a
   license to operate a foster home, youth residential facility or independent
   living program on an emergency basis.

   5902.2. The written notice shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	A statement setting forth the action CFSA intends to take or has taken;
   
   
   
   (b)	A brief description of the facts underlying the action or proposed action,
   including the time, place and issues involved;
   
   
   
   (c)	The specific statute, regulation, rule, or policy supporting the action;
   
   
   
   (d)	An explanation of the right to and method for requesting a fair hearing,
   including the name and address to whom a request for a hearing shall be
   directed;
   
   
   
   (e)	An explanation of the right to be represented by legal counsel or by an
   individual who is not a lawyer, at the appellant&#8217;s own expense, or to
   represent himself or herself. A representative may not be a District or CFSA
   employee;
   
   
   
   (f)	An explanation of the right to present documents and witnesses in support
   of the appeal;
   
   
   
   (g)	An explanation of the right to examine the case record; and
   
   
   
   (h)	A statement that if the appellant is deaf or cannot readily understand or
   communicate the English language, he or she may apply to CFSA for the
   appointment of a qualified interpreter.

   5902.3. In addition to the requirements of § 5902.2, written notice provided
   pursuant to § 5902.1(c) shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	The date that the report identifying the person was entered in the Child
   Protection Register; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A statement that the person has a right to review the entire report,
   except information which identifies other persons mentioned in the report.

   5902.4. In addition to the requirements of § 5902.2, written notice provided
   pursuant to § 5902.1(g) shall, in accordance with D.C. Code § 4-1302.05:
   
   
   
   (a)	Inform the licensee that he or she has seven (7) business days from the
   date the the notice is received to submit a request for an expedited
   preliminary review hearing for the purpose of reviewing the reasonableness of
   the suspension or conversion order, with the name and address of the person to
   whom the request shall be directed;
   
   
   
   (b)	Inform the licensee, concerning the expedited preliminary review hearing:
   
   
   
   (1)	Of the appellant&#8217;s right to be represented by designating in
   writing, a lawyer or other person to represent him or her at the expedited
   preliminary review hearing, at the appellant&#8217;s own expense;
   
   
   
   (2)	Of the availability of any known free legal services;
   
   
   
   (3)	Of the right to present documents and witnesses in support of the
   appellant&#8217;s challenge to the reasonableness of the suspension or
   conversion order;
   
   
   
   (4)	That if the appellant fails to communicate, either orally or in writing, a
   timely request for an expedited preliminary review hearing, the order of
   suspension or conversion shall remain in effect until terminated by CFSA or a
   fair hearing is held pursuant to this chapter;
   
   
   
   (c)	Notification that if licensee does not request an expedited preliminary
   review hearing, he or she may still request a fair hearing in accordance with
   this Chapter.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency published at 47 DCR 6035 (July 28, 2000) [EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Emergency published at 48 DCR 10067 (November 2, 2001) [EXPIRED];
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2440 (March 15, 2002).
