                                  DC REGULATIONS

EXPEDITED PRELIMINARY REVIEW PROCESS (ยง 29-5907)

5907.1. A licensed foster parent, a person licensed to operate a youth
   residential facility or an independent living program whose license is
   suspended or converted to a provisional or restricted license without a
   hearing because CFSA determines that existing deficiencies constitute an
   immediate or serious continuing danger to the health, safety or welfare of its
   residents may request an expedited preliminary review.

   5907.2. The request for the expedited preliminary review must be received
   within seven (7) days from the date notice to suspend or convert the license
   is received.

   5907.3. Within three (3) business days after receiving a timely request for an
   expedited preliminary review hearing, CFSA shall hold the hearing.

   5907.4. For good cause, the appellant may request a change of the date, time,
   or place of the expedited preliminary review hearing. If the Hearing Examiner
   finds that good cause for a change exists, he or she shall set another date,
   time, or place for the expedited preliminary review hearing. The time limits
   established by the chapter are extended by the period of delay due to any
   postponement requested by the appellant.

   5907.5. The Hearing Examiner may require the presence of any CFSA employee at
   the expedited preliminary review hearing.

   5907.6. The appellant may request in writing the attendance of any CFSA
   employee at the expedited preliminary review hearing. The request shall state
   the reasons why the employee&#8217;s attendance is required. If the Hearing
   Examiner decides that the employee&#8217;s attendance is necessary for the
   fair determination of the issues on appeal, the Hearing Examiner shall require
   the employee, if still employed by CFSA, to be present at the expedited
   preliminary review hearing.

   5907.7. The appellant may examine the licensing record, except he or she may
   not review any information that CFSA is required by law to keep confidential.

   5907.8. At the expedited preliminary review hearing, CFSA shall have the
   burden of establishing a prima facie case that the actions or inactions of a
   youth residential facility or an independent living program staff or any other
   condition constitutes either an immediate danger or a serious and continuing
   danger to the health, safety, or welfare of residents or staff of the facility
   or program.

   5907.9. With the consent of all parties, the Hearing Examiner may consolidate
   the expedited preliminary review hearing and the fair hearing.

   5907.10. At the conclusion of the expedited preliminary review hearing, the
   Hearing Examiner shall either affirm or vacate the suspension or conversion.
   If the expedited preliminary review has been consolidated with the fair
   hearing, the Hearing Examiner shall issue a decision in accordance with ยง
   5910.

   5907.11. If the Hearing Examiner affirms the suspension or conversion:
   
   
   
   (a)	The suspension or conversion shall remain in effect for no longer than
   thirty (30) days, unless extended for no more than an additional thirty (30)
   days upon agreement of all parties or for good cause shown; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A final fair hearing to determine whether to revoke the licensure or
   continue the restrictions on licensure shall be held within thirty (30) days,
   unless it has been consolidated with the preliminary review hearing or
   extended upon the agreement of all parties and for good cause.

   5907.12. In the event no preliminary review hearing is requested, the order to
   suspend or convert a license issued under Chapter 62, Title 29 of the D.C.M.R.
   remains in effect until terminated by CFSA or until the decision following the
   fair hearing.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency published at 47 DCR 6035 (July 28, 2000) [EXPIRED]; as
   amended by Emergency published at 48 DCR 10067 (November 2, 2001) [EXPIRED];
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 2440 (March 15, 2002).
