                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADMINISTRATION (ยง 1-1108)

1108.1. The Office of the Chief Financial Officer (&#8220;OCFO&#8221;) shall
   provide administrative and staff support to the Board.

   1108.2. The OCFO shall designate an OCFO employee to serve as Staff Director
   of the Board. The Staff Director may designate an OCFO employee to serve as
   Secretary of the Board, as well as to coordinate administrative and
   substantive support from other District employees to the Board. Board staff
   will assist the Board in carrying out its duties and responsibilities,
   including providing the necessary support to the Board to obtain information
   needed to perform its review. The Board, however, shall not delegate core
   responsibilities, such as the assessment of culpability, the determination of
   any justification for a violation, the determination that no violation
   actually occurred or the recommendation of disciplinary or other action.

   1108.3. The Secretary shall be responsible for keeping accurate minutes of the
   proceedings of all meetings of the Board. This includes providing
   administrative support associated with the needs of the Board, such as
   arranging meetings, and providing notices of meetings.

   1108.4. Upon majority vote of the Members present at a duly called meeting at
   which a quorum is present, the Staff Director and the Secretary of the Board
   may be removed from these positions at any time, without cause.

   1108.5. The Board shall continuously maintain in the District a principal
   office at such place as may be designated by the Members.

   1108.6. The Board staff shall create a case file for each report, designate a
   case number, and enter the case in a database. The Chairperson or his or her
   designee will notify the Members when a report of a violation has been
   received and will schedule, in consultation with Members, the earliest
   possible date for the Members to meet.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 7968 (August
   13, 2004) [EXPIRED]; as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 4402
   (May 11, 2007).
