                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 21-1199)

1199.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
   ascribed:
   
   
   
   	Acute toxic &#8211; the concentration of a substance that is lethal to fifty
   percent (50%) of the test organisms within ninety-six (96) hours, also
   referred to as the LC50.
   
   
   
   Ambient  those conditions existing before or upstream of a source or incidence
   of pollution.
   
   
   
   Anadromous fish &#8211; fish that spend most of their lives in saltwater but
   migrate into freshwater tributaries to spawn.
   
   
   
   Aquatic Life &#8211; all animal and plant life including, but not limited to,
   rooted underwater grasses found in the District waters.
   
   
   
   Background water quality &#8211; the levels of chemical, physical, biological,
   and radiological constituents or parameters in the water upgradient of a
   facility, practice, or activity and which have not been affected by that
   facility, practice, or activity.
   
   
   
   Best management practices (BMPs) &#8211; schedules of activities, prohibitions
   of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to
   prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants to the waters of the District. 
   BMPs also include practices found to be the most effective and practical means
   of preventing or reducing point and nonpoint source pollution to levels that
   are compatible with water quality goals.
   
   
   
   Contamination &#8211; an impairment of water quality by biological, chemical,
   physical, or radiological materials which lowers the water quality to a degree
   that creates a potential hazard to the environment or public health or
   interferes with a designated use.
   
   
   
   Criteria  any of the group of physical, chemical, biological, and radiological
   water quality parameters and the associated numerical concentrations or levels
   that compose the numerical standards of the water quality standards and that
   define a component of the quality of the water needed for a designated use.
   
   
   
   CCC or Criterion Continuous Concentration &#8211; the highest concentration of
   a pollutant to which aquatic life can be exposed for an extended period of
   time (four-day (4-day) average) without deleterious effects at a frequency
   that does not exceed more than once every three (3) years.
   
   
   
   CMC or Criterion Maximum Concentration &#8211; the highest concentration of a
   pollutant to which aquatic life can be exposed for a short period of time
   (one-hour (1-hour) average) without deleterious effects at a frequency that
   does not exceed more than once every three (3) years.
   
   
   
   	Consumption of fish and shellfish &#8211; the human ingestion of fish and
   shellfish, that are not chemically contaminated at a level that will cause a
   significant adverse health impact, caught from the District’s waters.
   
   
   
   Current use &#8211; the use that is generally and usually attained based upon
   the water quality in the waterbody.
   
   
   
   Department  the District Department of the Environment, or a successor agency.
   
   
   
   Designated use &#8211; the use specified for the waterbody in these water
   quality standards whether or not they are being attained.
   
   
   
   Director &#8211; the Director of the Department, or his or her designee.
   
   
   
   Early warning value &#8211; a concentration that is a percentage of or
   practical quantitation limit, for a ground water quality criterion or
   enforcement standard.
   
   
   
   EPA -United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   
   
   
   Enforcement standard &#8211; the value assigned to a contaminant for the
   purpose of regulating an activity, which may be the same as the criterion for
   that contaminant.
   
   
   
   Existing use &#8211; the use actually attained in the waterbody on or after
   November 28, 1975.
   
   
   
   Federal Clean Water Act &#8211; the Water Pollution Control Act, approved
   October 18, 1972 (86 Stat. 816; 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.), as amended.
   
   
   
   Ground water &#8211; underground water, excluding water in pipes, tanks, and
   other containers created or set up by people.
   
   
   
   Harmonic mean flow &#8211; the number of daily flow measurements divided by
   the sum of the reciprocals of the flows.  It is the reciprocal of the mean of
   the reciprocals.
   
   
   
   High quality waters &#8211; waters of a quality that is better than needed to
   protect fishable and swimmable streams.
   
   
   
   Landfill &#8211; a disposal facility or part of a facility at which solid
   waste is permanently placed in or on land and which is not a landspreading
   facility.
   
   
   
   Landspreading disposal facility &#8211; a facility that applies sludge or
   other solid wastes onto the land or incorporates solid waste in the soil
   surface at greater than vegetative utilization and soil
   conditioners/immobilization rates.
   
   
   
   LC50 or lethal concentration &#8211; the numerical limit or concentration of a
   test material mixed in water that is lethal to fifty percent (50%) of the
   aquatic organisms exposed to the test material for a period of ninety-six (96)
   hours.
   
   
   
   Load or loading &#8211; the total quantity of a pollutant in a given period of
   time.
   
   
   
   Mixing zone  a limited area or a volume of water where initial dilution of a
   discharge takes place and where numerical water quality criteria may be
   exceeded but acute toxic conditions are prevented from occurring.
   
   
   
   MPN  a statistically derived estimate of the “Most Probable Number” of
   bacteria colonies in a volume of one hundred milliliters (100 mL) water
   sample.
   
   
   
   Narrative criteria  a condition that should not be attained in a specific
   medium to maintain a given designated use and that is generally expressed in a
   &#8220;free from&#8221; format.
   
   
   
   Navigation &#8211; the designated use for certain District waters.  This
   designation applies to waters that are subject to the ebb and flow of the
   tides, or waters that are presently used, may have been used, or may be used
   for shipping, travel, and transportation of interstate or foreign commerce by
   vessel.
   
   
   
   Nonpoint source  any source from which pollutants are or may be discharged
   other than a point source.
   
   
   
   Nontidal waters &#8211; waters in the streams not subject to regular and
   periodic tidal action.
   
   
   
   Numerical criteria  the maximum level of a contaminant, or the minimum level
   of a constituent, or the acceptable range of a parameter in water to maintain
   a given designated use.
   
   
   
   Permit or permitted  a written authorization issued or certified by the
   Director under pertinent laws and regulations for an activity, facility, or
   entity to discharge, treat, store, or dispose of materials or wastes.
   
   
   
   Point of compliance &#8211; the point or points where the water quality
   enforcement standard or criterion must not be exceeded.
   
   
   
   Point source  any discrete source of quantifiable pollutants, including a
   municipal treatment facility discharge, residential, commercial or industrial
   waste discharge, a combined sewer overflow; or any discernible, confined, and
   discrete conveyance, including any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit,
   well, discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, or concentrated animal
   feeding operation from which contaminants are or may be discharged.
   
   
   
   Pollution  the manmade or maninduced alteration of the chemical, physical,
   biological, or radiological integrity of water.
   
   
   
   Pollutant  any substance that may alter or interfere with the restoration or
   maintenance of the chemical, physical, radiological, or biological integrity
   of the waters of the District, including dredged soil, solid waste,
   incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical
   wastes, hazardous wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat,
   wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, oil, gasoline and
   related petroleum products, and industrial, municipal, and agricultural
   wastes.
   
   
   
   Practical quantitation limit &#8211; the lowest concentration of a substance
   that generally can be determined by qualified laboratories within specified
   limits of precision and accuracy under routine laboratory operating conditions
   in the matrix of concern.
   
   
   
   Primary contact recreation  those water contact sports or activities that
   result in frequent whole body immersion or involve significant risks of
   ingestion of the water. (Class A)
   
   
   
   Responsible party &#8211; any person who has caused or is causing pollution or
   has created or is creating a condition from which pollution is likely to
   occur.
   
   
   
   Secondary contact recreation  those water contact sports or activities that
   seldom result in whole body immersion or do not involve significant risks of
   ingestion of the water. (Class B)
   
   
   
   Semi-anadromous fish &#8211; fish that spend most of their lives in tidally
   influenced low to medium salinity waters but migrate into freshwater
   tributaries to spawn.
   
   
   
   Short term degradation &#8211; the period during which the waterbody may be
   degraded based on the nature of the pollutant and the degree of its
   environmental or human health impact, as determined by the Director on a
   case-by-case basis.
   
   
   
   Solid waste  all putrescible and nonputrescible solid and semisolid wastes,
   including garbage, rubbish, ashes, industrial wastes, swill, demolition and
   construction wastes, abandoned vehicles or parts thereof, and discarded
   commodities.  This term also includes all liquid, solid, and semisolid
   materials that are not the primary products of public, private, industrial or
   commercial mining, and agricultural operations.
   
   
   
   Special swimming event – A single-day event requiring full body contact in
   water in which swimming is generally prohibited, including a triathlon
   swimming leg, a group plunge, or a swim meet, and, if any, a companion
   preceding single-day practice event.
   
   
   
   Special swimming event organization – An organization, business, government
   agency, or other entity which organizes and sponsors a special swimming event.
   
   
   
   Special swimming event organizer – The special swimming event organization
   principally responsible for staging the special swimming event.
   
   
   
   Standards  those regulations, in the form of numerical, narrative, or
   enforcement standards, that specify a level of quality of the waters of the
   District necessary to sustain the designated uses.
   
   
   
   Surface impoundment &#8211; a facility or part of a facility that is a natural
   topographic depression, man-made excavation, or diked area formed primarily of
   earthen materials (although it may be lined with man-made materials), and that
   is designed to hold an accumulation of liquids or sludge.
   
   
   
   Surface waters  all rivers, lakes, ponds, wetlands, inland waters, streams,
   and all other water and water courses within the jurisdiction of the District
   of Columbia.
   
   
   
   Tidally influenced waters &#8211; surface waters within the Potomac River, the
   Anacostia River and all embayments and tributaries to these rivers under the
   influence of tidal exchange.
   
   
   
   Toxic substance &#8211; any substance or combination of substances that, after
   discharge and upon exposure, ingestion, inhalation, or assimilation into any
   organism, either directly from the environment or indirectly by ingestion
   through food chains, may cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities,
   cancer, genetic mutations, physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions
   in reproduction), or physical deformities, in the organism or its offspring.
   
   
   
   Trend analysis &#8211; a statistical methodology used to detect net changes or
   trends in contaminant levels over time.
   
   
   
   Water Effect Ratio or WER &#8211; the ratio of the site water LC50 value to
   the laboratory water LC50 value.
   
   
   
   Waters of the District or District waters  flowing and still bodies of water,
   whether artificial or natural, whether underground or on land, so long as in
   the District of Columbia, but excludes water on private property prevented
   from reaching underground or land watercourses, and also excludes water in
   closed collection or distribution systems.
   
   
   
   Wetland &#8211; a marsh, swamp, bog, or other area periodically inundated by
   tides or having saturated soil conditions for prolonged periods of time and
   capable of supporting aquatic vegetation.
   
   
   
   Wildlife &#8211; all animal life whether indigenous or migratory regardless of
   life stage including, but not limited to, birds, anadromous and
   semi-anadromous fish, shellfish, and mammals including sensitive species, that
   are found in or use the District waters.

   1199.2. When used in this chapter, the following abbreviations shall have the
   meaning ascribed:
   
   
   
   ºC 		- 	degrees centigrade
   
   CaCO3		-	Calcium Carbonate
   
   CF		-	Conversion Factor
   
   ln		-	natural logarithm
   
   m		-	meter
   
   mg/L		-	milligrams per liter
   
   μg/L		-	microgram per liter
   
   mg N/L	-	milligrams of Nitrogen per liter
   
   mL		-	milliliter
   
   MPN		-	Most Probable Number
   
   NPDES	-	National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   
   NTU		-	nephelometric turbidity units
   
   WQS		-	water quality standards
   
   
   
   US EPA – United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 32 DCR 7690, 7597 (December 27, 1985):
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 4212 (July 2, 1993); and by
   Final Rulemaking publishing by 41 DCR 1075, 1095 (March 4, 1994); as amended
   by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 284(January 21, 2000); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 3012 (April 5, 2002
   ); as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 49
   DCR 1706 (February 22, 2002); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 49 DCR 4854(May 24, 2002); as amended by Notice of Final
   Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 9621(October 28, 2005); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 9129, 9154-9160 (October 1, 2010); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 9470, 9476 (August 10, 2012).
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   1
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   7
