                                  DC REGULATIONS

BENEFICIAL USE CLASSES FOR GROUND WATER (ยง 21-1152)

1152.1. The following ground waters shall be classified as Class G1 if they
   are of drinking water quality:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ground waters that are highly vulnerable to contamination;
   
   
   
   (b)	Ground waters in recharge areas of drinking water aquifers of adjacent
   jurisdictions;
   
   
   
   (c)	Ground waters that are hydrologically connected to surface waters of the
   District including designated antidegradation segments; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Ground waters that discharge to a sensitive ecological system that
   supports a unique habitat.

   1152.2. The following ground waters shall be classified as Class G2:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ground waters that are of drinking water quality but are not classified as
   G1;
   
   
   
   (b)	Ground waters in recharge areas of drinking water aquifers of adjacent
   jurisdictions but are not drinking water quality;
   
   
   
   (c)	Ground waters that are hydrologically connected to surface waters of the
   District including designated antidegradation segments but are not of drinking
   water quality; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Ground waters that are not of drinking water quality but can be made
   suitable for drinking water by conventional treatment processes.

   1152.3. Class G3 ground waters shall be those that can neither be grouped
   under Class G1 nor under Class G2.

   1152.4. In order to adequately maintain and preserve ground water quality
   within the District, where land use is affecting or has the potential to
   affect ground water quality, the Director, Department of Consumer and
   Regulatory Affairs, shall identify areas that are highly vulnerable to ground
   water contamination. Class G1, G2, G3 ground water shall then be designated as
   ground water vulnerable to ground water contamination.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 4203, 4204 (July 2, 1993);
   renumbered by Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 1075 (March 4, 1994).
