                                  DC REGULATIONS

SITE SPECIFIC STANDARDS (ยง 21-1106)

1106.1 	If requested, the Director may allow a person to conduct a
   site-specific study to change the numerical criteria when at least one (1) of
   the following conditions exists:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The species, or endangered species, at the site are more or
   
   less sensitive than those included in the national criteria data set; or
   
   
   
   		(b)	Physical or chemical characteristics of the site alter the
   
   biological availability or toxicity of the chemical.

   1106.2. If the criteria in subsection 1104.8 are found to be unsuitable for
   the District waters based upon the conditions described in subsection 1106.1,
   when requested to do so, the Director may adopt site-specific criterion for
   Class C waters, except for mercury and selenium, or for Class D waters, only
   when a site-specific study necessitates.

   1106.3. When requested to do so, based upon the conditions described in
   subsection 1106.1 and, if warranted, the Director shall allow site-specific
   studies to generate scientific information regarding:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Water Effect Ratio for metals specific to the District waters;
   
   
   
   (b)	The sensitivities of the aquatic organisms prevalent in the District;
   
   
   
   (c) 	The toxicity of chemicals to the fish in the District waters and related
   human health effects; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any other compelling factors that merit consideration for changing the
   numerical standards in subsection 1104.8.

   1106.4. A person or persons planning to conduct a site-specific study shall
   submit a complete plan of study to the Director for approval, and the
   site-specific study shall be carried out only after the Director approves the
   study in writing, subject to the requirements set forth in this section.

   1106.5. The Director shall provide advance notice to all discharge permittees
   and applicants for discharge permits prior to the initiation of any
   site-specific study.

   1106.6. All site-specific studies and adoption of site-specific criteria shall
   be subject to the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Once the Director has approved the study, it shall be concluded in
   accordance with the approved plan;
   
   
   
   (b)	A person or persons conducting a site-specific study subject to subsection
   1106.3 shall submit to the Director for review and approval all data,
   analyses, findings, reports, and other information the Director deems
   necessary;
   
   
   
   (c)	The Director shall seek review of the findings of the site-specific
   studies and other relevant information by the public, as well as by
   appropriate local and federal government agencies and consider their concerns
   before adopting any less stringent site-specific criterion based on those
   findings; and
   
   
   
   (d)	If the study concludes that a more stringent criterion is needed for Class
   C or D waters than provided in subsection 1104.8, then the Director shall
   modify the standards to reflect the more stringent level of protection.

   1106.7. If a study is conducted to determine the Water Effect Ratio (WER) for
   metals and the criteria are in the dissolved form, the WER must be based on
   the dissolved fraction of the metals.  If the study is conducted to determine
   the WER for metals and the criteria are in the total recoverable form, the WER
   must be based on the total recoverable fraction of the metals.  If WERs are to
   be developed, EPA guidance Interim Guidance on Determination and Use of Water
   Effect Ratios for Metals, EPA-823-B-94-001, February 1994, shall be used and
   at a minimum, the following conditions shall be met unless the Director
   approves a deviation or alternate method:
   
   
   
   (a)	If a WER study concludes that an existing criterion is not stringent
   enough, then the criterion shall be made more stringent;
   
   
   
   (b)	At least two (2) sensitive indicator species, a fish and at least one (1)
   invertebrate, shall be used to determine toxicity in laboratory water and
   water collected from the site;
   
   
   
   (c)	The LC50 in the laboratory water must be comparable to the LC50 data
   developed by EPA;
   
   
   
   (d)	Water samples collected from the site shall be representative of critical
   low flow.  A minimum of eight (8) samples per location per season shall be
   evaluated;
   
   
   
   (e)	Samples shall be taken at the edge of the mixing zone unless multiple
   discharges are involved.  At least one (1) sample shall be reasonably well
   mixed with the flow of the receiving water, or the sample shall be well
   outside the regulatory mixing zone;
   
   
   
   (f)	Laboratory water shall be the same as the water used by EPA and adjusted
   for site water characteristics and hardness;
   
   
   
   (g)	The trace metal shall be added in the form of a highly soluble inorganic
   salt;
   
   
   
   (h)	The chemical and physical characteristics, both dissolved and total
   recoverable metal concentrations, hardness, pH, alkalinity, suspended solids,
   organic carbon, temperature, and specific metal binding ligands (where known
   to be important), and any other water quality characteristic that affects
   bioavailability and toxicity of the water should be monitored during the
   toxicity tests;
   
   
   
   (i)	A WER that is large or that is based on highly variable tests may be
   rejected;
   
   
   
   (j)	The WER shall be the geometric mean of the two (2) species; and
   
   
   
   (k)	All chemical, biochemical, biological, and other appropriate analyses
   shall be conducted using EPA-approved methods.

   1106.8. If a site-specific study is conducted to determine the Class D Human
   Health Criteria and related human health effects, at a minimum, the study
   shall incorporate the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	Bioconcentration factors of the substances in the commonly consumed fish
   in the District;
   
   
   
   (b)	Percent lipids in the commonly consumed fish in the District; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Information regarding the consumption by the public of fish caught from
   the District waters.

   1106.9. The determination of subsection 1106.8 (a) and (b) shall be made using
   EPA-approved methods.

   1106.10. The criteria, based upon a site-specific study and information
   collected through the study, shall be calculated using relations developed by
   EPA Technical Support Document for Water Quality-Based Toxics Control,
   EPA-505-2-90-001, March 1991, minus the component for drinking water, as
   follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	For noncarcinogens:
   
   
   
   NEW CRITERIA = (RfD x WT)/(FC x L x FM x BCF)
   
   
   
   where RfD is the reference dose from the EPA Integrated Risk Information
   System (IRIS) database, WT is seventy (70) kilograms, FC is the daily fish
   consumption by the exposed population in kilograms per day, L is the ratio of
   lipid fraction of fish tissue consumed to three percent (3%), FM is the food
   chain multiplier and BCF is the bioconcentration factor for fish with three
   percent (3%) lipid.
   
   
   
   (b)	For carcinogens:
   
   
   
   NEW CRITERIA = (RL x WT)/(q1* x FC x L x FM x BCF)
   
   
   
   where WT, FC, L, FM, and BCF are as stated above; RL is 10-6 and q1* is the
   carcinogenic potency factor from the EPA IRIS database.

   1106.11. If the effluent limitation for a metal in a discharge permit is
   specified as &#8220;total recoverable&#8221;, and the criterion for it in
   subsection 1104.8 is specified as &#8220;dissolved&#8221;, either of the
   following two (2) approaches based on The Metals Translator: Guidance for
   Calculating a Total Recoverable Permit Limit From a Dissolved Criterion,
   EPA-823-B-96-007, June 1996, may be used, subject to prior review and approval
   by the Director:
   
   
   
   (a)	The criterion may be used as total recoverable for the purpose of
   establishing effluent limitations; or
   
   
   
   (b)	A site-specific ratio between the dissolved and total recoverable metal
   may be developed by systematic monitoring and analysis of the effluent and of
   the receiving water at the edge of the mixing zone during periods that reflect
   the environmental conditions upon which the permit was issued.  This ratio
   shall incorporate considerations to avoid toxicity to aquatic organisms from
   deposition to the sediment outside of the mixing zone.  The ratio of dissolved
   to total recoverable metal shall then be used to determine the total
   recoverable effluent limits based on the dissolved metal criterion.

   1106.12. The Director may establish additional requirements for adopting
   site-specific water quality standards.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 1075, 1091 (March 4, 1994); as
   amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 284(January 21,
   2000); as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 3012
   (April 5, 2002); as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking
   published at 49 DCR 1706 (February 22, 2002); as amended by Notice of Final
   Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 9621(October 28, 2005); as amended by Final
   Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 9129, 9150-9154 (October 1, 2010).
   
   
   
   	EDITOR&#8217;S NOTE: Prior to March 4, 1994, the Department of Consumer and
   Regulatory Affairs published at Final Rulemaking at 32 DCR 7690 (December 27,
   1985).
