                                  DC REGULATIONS

RIVERS (§ 21-1108)

1108.1. Except as otherwise provided in this section, primary contact
   recreation shall be prohibited in the Potomac and Anacostia Rivers and Rock
   Creek until such time as the standards in § 1104.8 for Class A beneficial use
   are consistently maintained.

   1108.2. The Director may issue a decision that allows a special swimming event
   in the Potomac River, if:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A study conducted by the special swimming event organizer shows that the
   numeric criteria for Class A listed in §1104.8 are being attained; and
   
   
   
   	(b) 	The other provisions of this section have been satisfied.

   1108.3. The study required by § 1108.2 shall be conducted as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	At least twenty-eight (28) days before collecting samples, the special
   swimming event organizer shall submit to the District Department of the
   Environment (the Department) for review and approval a quality assurance
   project plan (QAPP) that shall be prepared and implemented by a qualified
   professional environmental monitoring firm in accordance with:
   
   (1)	“EPA Requirements for Quality Management Plans (QA/R-2),”
   (EPA/240/B-01/002, March 2001 or subsequently issued guidance); or
   
   
   
   (2)	Equivalent documentation as determined by the United States Environmental
   Protection Agency (US EPA);
   
   
   
   (b) 	Samples shall not be collected before the QAPP is approved;
   
   
   
   (c) 	All samples shall be collected as required in the approved QAPP;
   
   
   
   (d) 	Samples for Escherichia coli (E. coli), pH, and turbidity shall be
   collected and analyzed according to US EPA regulation 40 CFR Part 136;
   
   
   
   (e) 	The qualifications of each person undertaking the sample collection and
   analysis for the special swimming event organizer shall be subject to the
   Department&#8217;s review, for verification that the person meets minimum
   technical background and experience requirements; and
   
   
   
   (f) 	The laboratory conducting the sample analysis shall:
   
   
   
   (1) 	Be capable of providing complete environmental analytical services,
   consistent with US EPA protocols, and according to a Laboratory Quality
   Management Plan; and
   
   
   
   (2) 	Be accredited or certified to perform the analysis, including the
   specific methods identified in the QAPP.

   1108.4. The study and report of the sample analysis shall be submitted to the
   Department at least forty-eight (48) hours before a scheduled special swimming
   event.

   1108.5. Failure to submit the study and report by the deadline will result in
   the Director&#8217;s denial of authorization for the special swimming event.

   1108.6. The study and report shall include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Each completed chain of custody form and lab report;
   
   
   
   (b) 	An assessment of whether the water quality criteria for Class A in 21
   DCMR § 1104 have been attained; and
   
   
   
   (c) 	An evaluation of each relevant factor, including:
   
   
   
   (1)	Rainfall;
   
   
   
   (2) 	Upstream sewage or chemical releases; and
   
   
   
   (3) 	Other environmental conditions that may affect the water quality.

   1108.7. The Director shall deny permission to swim in the Potomac River if the
   results of the study or the Director&#8217;s independent investigation
   indicate:
   
   
   
   (a)	The water quality standards are not being attained;
   
   
   
   (b)	An emergency health hazard caused by a hazardous pollutant or condition
   has occurred; or
   
   
   
   (c)	There may be a health risk from a known pollution source, including:
   
   
   
   	(1)	Combined sewer overflow;
   
   
   
   	(2)	Failing sewer infrastructure;
   
   
   
   	(3)	Chemical release; or
   
   
   
   	(4)	Wastewater treatment discharge.

   1108.8. At least twenty-eight (28) days before a special swimming event, the
   special swimming event organizer shall submit to the Director verification
   that a Certificate of Insurance, or other proof of coverage, that has been
   signed by an authorized representative of the insurer, has been provided to
   each appropriate permitting agency.

   1108.9. The Director shall not authorize the special swimming event unless the
   verification is submitted to the Director in the time required by § 1108.8.

   1108.10. The special swimming event organizer’s verification shall state in
   writing that:
   
   
   
   (a)	The special swimming event organizer has obtained the following coverage
   for the event period, and the amount of coverage, if any, for each of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Comprehensive coverage;
   
   
   
   (2)	Bodily injury liability coverage;
   
   
   
   (3)	If the owner of a vehicle, including a boat, liability coverage for 	use
   of the vehicle;
   
   
   
   (4)	Workers&#8217; compensation insurance; and
   
   
   
   (5)	Coverage of the District as an additional insured;
   
   
   
   (b)	Each insurance policy is written with a responsible company licensed by
   the District; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Each insurance policy provides for at least twenty-eight (28) days’
   written notice to the District prior to termination or material alteration.

   1108.11. If an approval required by this section is denied, canceled, not
   renewed, or materially altered, a special swimming event organizer shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Notify the Director immediately by phone and email; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Confirm to the Director by letter and fax within twenty-four (24) hours.

   1108.12. Upon receiving notice of a material change in a required approval,
   the Director may rescind authorization for the special swimming event.

   1108.13. As a condition of event authorization, the special swimming event
   organizer shall secure from each employee, contractor, and volunteer of the
   special swimming event organization and from each participant a signed,
   Department-approved statement that expressly:
   
   
   
   (a)	Assumes the risk of event participation; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Waives liability of the District Government, its officers, employees, and
   agents for any damage or injury arising out of the person’s participation in
   the event.

   1108.14. The special swimming event organizer shall take each step which:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Director deems necessary to ensure that the requirements of this
   section are satisfied; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Shall include presenting each required report or form to the Director
   within twenty-eight (28) days after the event.

   1108.15. The special swimming event organizer shall pay a fee of one thousand
   dollars ($1,000) per event for the costs the Department incurs, including
   review and approval or denial of the QAPP and other submittals.

   1108.16. Payment of the fee shall:
   
   
   
   	(a)	Occur by the time the application is submitted; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Be a precondition for review of the QAPP, related studies, and other
   submittals.

   1108.17. The special swimming event organizer shall provide to the Director at
   least seven (7) days in advance of the special swimming event documentation
   showing:
   
   
   
   		(a)	Coordination with each relevant public safety agency; and
   
   
   
   (b)	A contingency plan for the special swimming event in the circumstance that
   either the Director or the special swimming event organizer determines that
   swimming would not be safe.

   1108.18. The special swimming event organizer shall provide to the Director
   within fifty-six (56) days (eight weeks) after the special swimming event a
   report of:
   
   
   
   	(a)	Each recorded incident from each relevant public safety agency;
   
   
   
   (b)	Each medical issue or incident involving an on-site first aid facility;
   
   
   
   	(c)	Use of the contingency plan for unsafe swimming; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Sampling of each event day’s water at the event site, and the subsequent
   testing of each sample.

   1108.19. With respect to this section, a person adversely affected or
   aggrieved by an action of the Department shall exhaust administrative remedies
   by timely filing an administrative appeal with, and requesting a hearing
   before, the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH), in accordance with the
   Office of Administrative Hearings Establishment Act of 2001, effective March
   6, 2002 (D.C. Law 14-76; D.C. Official Code, §§ 21831.01 et seq. (2007
   Repl. &#038; 2011 Supp.)), as amended, and OAH’s rules.

   1108.20. The following general rules apply to this section:
   
   
   
   (a) 	A person who is regulated pursuant to this section may empower an agent
   to act for that person; however, empowering an agent does not change or
   eliminate that person’s duty, responsibility, or liability; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The special swimming event organizer shall, if not a natural person, be
   represented by an officer, chief executive, or other responsible natural
   person, who shall:
   
   
   
   	(1) 	Sign and certify each application and report; and
   
   
   
   	(2) 	Take responsibility for the duties and conduct of the special 	swimming
   event organizer.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 9470, 9471 (August 10,
   2012).
