                                  DC REGULATIONS

GROUND WATER MONITORING FOR POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION (ยง 21-1157)

1157.1. Except as specified in ยง 1157.2, the monitoring requirements shall
   apply to the owners and operators of landfills, solid waste piles (other than
   piles of gravel, resident soils and other such material), land spreading
   disposal facilities, surface impoundments of wastes and solid waste discharge
   facilities.

   1157.2. The monitoring requirements shall not pertain to other programs and
   activities of the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs already
   covered by a promulgated rule that has specific monitoring requirements
   including the federal discharge permits program and Hazardous Waste
   Management, 20 DCMR 40.

   1157.3. All permitted facilities requiring ground water monitoring shall
   submit for approval, a ground water monitoring program to determine
   representative background water quality and the quality of the water passing
   the point of compliance.

   1157.4. Background monitoring points shall be located at points where
   potential sources of ground water contamination from the permitted site will
   not affect ground water quality.

   1157.5. The monitoring program shall include, but not be limited to, the
   uppermost aquifer and any aquifer in the point of compliance that is
   hydrologically connected to the surface waters of the District and
   antidegradation segments and drinking water aquifers of adjacent
   jurisdictions. At a minimum, the monitoring program shall include the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	One (1) upgradient well and three (3) downgradient wells installed at
   appropriate locations and depth to yield ground water samples from the
   uppermost aquifer and all hydrologically connected aquifers below the active
   portion of the facility;
   
   
   
   (b)	All monitoring wells shall be cased to maintain the integrity of the
   monitoring well bore hole. The casing shall allow collection of representative
   water samples. The well shall be constructed in such a manner as to prevent
   contamination of the samples, the sampled strata, water bearing aquifers and
   prevent contamination between aquifers;
   
   
   
   (c)	A sampling and analysis plan;
   
   
   
   (d)	A quality assurance and quality control plan;
   
   
   
   (e)	A quarterly sampling frequency for the first two (2) years. If early
   warning values are not reached or a trend analysis shows no significant
   contamination, sampling frequency will either be reduced or discontinued on
   approval of the Director; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Submittal of an annual report of monitoring results not withstanding
   requirements pursuant to ยง 1155.12.

   1157.6. Monitoring may be required for nonpermitted point and non-point source
   activities with a potential to contaminate ground water.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 4203, 4210 (July 2, 1993);
   renumbered by Final Rulemaking published at 41 DCR 1075 (March 4, 1994).
