                                  DC REGULATIONS

ACCESS TO DOCUMENTS AND RECORD RETENTION (ยง 28-5005)

5005.1. The CME shall be responsible for maintaining full and complete records
   and files, properly indexed, which provide the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, if known, of every person whose death is investigated;
   
   
   
   (b)	The place where the body was found;
   
   
   
   (c)	The date the body was found;
   
   
   
   (d)	The cause and manner of death; and
   
   
   
   (e)	All other relevant information and reports of the medical examiner
   concerning the death.

   5005.2. The CME shall promptly deliver copies of records relating to deaths as
   to which further investigation may be advisable, and the records and files
   maintained under the provisions of subsection 5005.1 of this section shall be
   open to inspection by the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Mayor;
   
   
   
   (b)	The Mayor&#8217;s authorized representative;
   
   
   
   (c)	The United States Attorney;
   
   
   
   (d)	The United States Attorney&#8217;s Assistants;
   
   
   
   (e)	The Metropolitan Police Department; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Any other law enforcement agency or official.

   5005.3. Any other person with a legitimate interest in the records and files
   maintained under the provisions of subsection 5005.1 may obtain copies of such
   records and files upon such conditions and payment of such fees as may be
   prescribed by these rules and applicable privacy laws. If such person fails to
   meet the prescribed conditions, such person may obtain copies of such records
   by doing one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Providing written authorization of the next of kin for release of the
   records;
   
   
   
   (b)	Serving a subpoena on the custodian of records, Office of the Chief
   Medical Examiner; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Pursuant to a court order if the court is satisfied that such person has a
   legitimate interest.

   5005.4. Information obtained by the OCME from the Homicide Section of the
   Metropolitan Police Department pursuant to subsection 5005.1 of these
   regulations shall not be available to those individuals covered under
   subsection 5005.3.

   5005.6. Records and files maintained pursuant to subsection 5005.1 shall be
   preserved by the Chief Medical Examiner for a period of 30 years except that
   records and files related to an open investigation of a homicide shall be
   retained for 65 years from the date the CME initiates its investigation of the
   homicide.

   5005.7. In accordance with the accreditation requirements of the National
   Association of Medical Examiners, Toxicology specimens shall be preserved for
   a minimum of 12 months and Histology specimens shall be preserved for a
   minimum of three months.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: As amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 8922 (October 7,
   2005).
