                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPROVED CONTINUING EDUCATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES (§ 17-7009)

7009.1. The Board shall approve only continuing education programs and
   activities that contribute to the growth of an applicant in professional
   competence in the practice of social work and which meet the other
   requirements of this section.

   7009.2. The Board may approve the following types of continuing education
   programs, if the programs meet the requirements of § 7009.6:
   
   
   
   (a)	An undergraduate or graduate course given at an accredited college or
   university;
   
   
   
   (b)	A seminar or workshop; and
   
   
   
   (c)	An educational program given at a conference.
   
   
   
   7009.3 	The Board may approve the following independent home studies and
   distance learning continuing education activities:
   
   
   
   (a)  	Serving as an instructor or speaker at a conference, seminar, or
   workshop;
   
   
   
   (b)  	Publication of an article in a professional journal, publication of a
   book or a chapter in a book, or publication of a book review in a professional
   journal or bulletin;
   
   
   
   (c)  	Internet courses, video courses, telecourses, videoconferences, and
   teleconferences offered by accredited colleges or universities, or
   pre-approved by local or national professional social work organizations; and
   
   
   
   (d)  	Independent study programs directly related to social work approved by
   accredited college or university schools of social work, local or national
   professional social work organizations, the Association of Social Work Boards
   (ASWB), or the Board, and peer study groups sanctioned by local or national
   social work organizations.

   7009.4. No more than twelve (12) CEUs may be accepted in any renewal period,
   or for reinstatement or reactivation of a license, for approved independent
   home studies and distance learning continuing education activities.
   
   
   
   7009.5 	Independent study programs and distance learning continuing education
   activities, including internet courses, shall not be used to satisfy the
   continuing education ethics requirement.

   7009.6. To qualify for approval by the Board, a continuing education program
   shall meet the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Be current in its subject matter;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be developed and taught by individuals with demonstrated qualifications in
   the topic in consultation with a licensed social worker; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Meet one of the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (1)	Be administered or approved by:
   
   
   
   (A)	A recognized social work, mental health, or human services organization
   that is approved by the Board; or
   
   
   
   (B)	A college or university that is accredited by an accrediting body
   recognized by the Secretary of the United States Department of Education or
   the Council on Postsecondary Accreditation; or
   
   
   
   (2)	Be submitted by the program sponsors to the Board for review no less than
   three (3) months prior to the date of the presentation and be approved by the
   Board.

   7009.7. Requests for approval of continuing education programs received by the
   Board after the continuing education program has already occurred will not be
   approved or accepted.

   7009.8. The Board may issue and update a list of approved continuing education
   organizations and programs.

   7009.9. An applicant shall have the burden of verifying whether a program or
   activity is approved by the Board pursuant to this section prior to attending
   the program or engaging in the activity.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The Board shall not grant continuing education credits for:
   
   
   
   (a) 	Work done in the course of an applicant’s normal occupation or incident
   to the performance of his or her regular professional duties, such as
   teaching, research, or course preparation in the case of a teacher or
   professor whether on a full-time or part-time basis;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Meetings and activities not related to the practice of social work which
   are required as part of an applicant’s professional activities such as job
   orientations, and agency required administrative trainings;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Individual or group supervision; or
   
   
   
   (d) 	Other activities, which are not of the type of activities approved by the
   Board.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 5881 (July 25, 2003); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 10686 (December 9, 2005); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 4209, 4215 (May 4, 2012); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 8489 (June 7, 2013).
