                                  DC REGULATIONS

LICENSE BY ENDORSEMENT (ยง 17-7007)

7007.1. An applicant is eligible for a license by endorsement if the
   applicant:
   
   
   
   (a)	Obtained initial licensure in the United States by an examination
   equivalent to the level of licensure for which the applicant is applying; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Is currently licensed in good standing as a social worker under the laws
   of a state or territory of the United States pursuant to licensure
   requirements which, as determined by Board, were substantially equivalent at
   the time of licensure to the requirements of this chapter.

   7007.2. To apply for a license by endorsement, an applicant shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Submit a completed application to the Board on the required forms and
   include:
   
   
   
   (1)	The applicant&#8217;s social security number on the application. If the
   applicant does not have a social security number, the applicant shall submit a
   sworn affidavit, under penalty of perjury, with the application stating that
   he or she does not have a social security number; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Two (2) recent passport-type photographs of the applicant&#8217;s face
   measuring two inches by two inches (2&#8243; x 2&#8243;) which clearly expose
   the area from the top of the forehead to the bottom of the chin.
   
   
   
   (b)	Submit a copy of his or her current license with the application;
   
   
   
   (c)	Obtain licensure verification from the original state or territory of
   licensure that the license is current and in good standing. The licensure
   verification form must be sent directly to the Board, by the verifying Board;
   
   
   
   (d)	Submit the applicant&#8217;s certified or validated examination results,
   which shall confirm that the applicant has received a passing score on the
   required level of the national examination or on another examination
   determined by the Board to be equivalent;
   
   
   
   (e)	Meet any other requirements as set forth by the Board; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Pay all required fees.

   7007.3. An application that remains incomplete for ninety (90) days or more
   from the date of submission shall be considered abandoned, and closed by the
   Board. The applicant shall thereafter be required to reapply, submit the
   required documents and completed forms, and pay the required fees.

   7007.4. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the Board from
   utilizing other authorized databases to verify an applicant&#8217;s current
   licensure standing in other jurisdictions of the U.S. or to review
   disciplinary records.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 8281, 8283 (December 8, 1989);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 10686 (December 9, 2005).
