                                  DC REGULATIONS

ELIGIBILITY TO TAKE NATIONAL EXAMINATION (ยง 17-7005)

7005.1. An individual may be eligible to take the national examination if the
   individual:
   
   
   
   (a)	Has completed a social work program accredited by the Council of Social
   Work Education; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Is enrolled in his or her final semester or quarter of a social work
   program accredited by the Council of Social Work Education, and is expected to
   receive the applicable social work degree at the end of the semester or
   quarter.

   7005.2. A student enrolled in his or her final semester or quarter of a social
   work program accredited by the Council of Social Work Education, who is a
   candidate for a degree in Social Work, may request approval from the Board to
   sit for the national examination as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	By submitting an application to the Board for a license by examination on
   the required forms, which includes the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	The applicant&#8217;s social security number or if the applicant does not
   have a social security number, a sworn affidavit, under penalty of perjury,
   stating that he or she does not have a social security number; and
   
   
   
   (2)	Two (2) recent passport-type photographs of the applicant&#8217;s face
   measuring two inches by two inches (2&#8243; x 2&#8243;) which clearly expose
   the area from the top of the forehead to the bottom of the chin.
   
   
   
   (b)	By submitting a written request to the Board for authorization to take the
   national examination prior to graduation;
   
   
   
   (c)	By arranging for the education institution to submit to the Board,
   official evidence under seal of the university or school indicating:
   
   
   
   (1)	The degree that the student is expected to receive; and
   
   
   
   (2)	The date that the student is expected to receive the degree.
   
   
   
   (d)	By meeting any other requirements as set forth by the Board; and
   
   
   
   (e)	By paying all required fees.

   7005.3. Approval to take the national examination shall be effective for two
   (2) examinations or one hundred and twenty (120) days, which ever comes first.

   7005.4. After graduating from the social work program, and taking the national
   examination, the student shall submit to the Board the required documents as
   set forth under ยง 7006.2(b)-(e) of this chapter to complete the
   applicant&#8217;s application for a license by examination.

   7005.5. An application that remains incomplete for one hundred and twenty
   (120) days or more from the date of submission shall be considered abandoned,
   and closed by Board. The applicant shall thereafter be required to reapply,
   comply with the current requirements for licensure, and pay the required fees.

   7005.6. A license may not be granted until the Board receives proof of
   graduation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 10686 (December 9, 2005).
