                                  DC REGULATIONS

DRIVING ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE ROADWAY[COLON] PROPER USE OF THE ROADWAY (ยง
18-2201)

2201.1. Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
   the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
   direction under this section governing such movement;
   
   
   
   (b)	When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left of the
   center of the roadway; Provided, that any person so doing shall yield the
   right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
   unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
   immediate hazard;
   
   
   
   (c)	Upon a roadway designated and signed for one-way traffic; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under the
   applicable rules.

   2201.2. Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
   speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
   shall be driven in the right-hand plane then available for traffic, or as
   close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except
   when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction
   or when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road,
   driveway, or alley.

   2201.3. Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each
   other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one lane
   of traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least
   one-half of the main traveled portion of the roadway, as nearly as possible.

   2201.4. Upon a roadway so designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
   driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
   indicated by official traffic control devices.

   2201.5. A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
   to the right of the island: Provided, that this subsection shall not apply to
   apparatus engaged in snow removal and control.

   2201.6. Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly
   marked lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all other rules
   consistent with this subtitle shall apply:
   
   
   
   (a)	A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
   single lane and shall not be moved from that lane until the driver has first
   ascertained that such movement can be made with safety;
   
   
   
   (b)	Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes and provides for
   two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
   except when:
   
   
   
   (1)	Overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same direction
   when the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance;
   
   
   
   (2)	In preparation for making or completing a turn; or
   
   
   
   (3)	Where the center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic
   moving in the same direction that the vehicle is proceeding and the allocation
   is designated by official traffic control devices;
   
   
   
   (c)	Official traffic control devices may be installed directing specified
   traffic to use a designated lane or designating the lane to be used by traffic
   moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and
   drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of the device; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Official traffic control devices may be installed prohibiting the changing
   of lanes on sections of roadways, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
   directions of the device.

   2201.7. Whenever any highway has been divided into two (2) or more roadways by
   leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated
   dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
   shall be driven only upon the right-hand roadway, unless directed or permitted
   to use another roadway by official traffic control devices or police officer.

   2201.8. No vehicle shall be driven over, across or within any dividing space,
   barrier or section, except through an opening in the physical barrier or
   dividing section or space or at a crossover or intersection or an unraised,
   paved dividing section with pavement markings only, unless otherwise directed
   by official traffic control devices.

   2201.9. The driver of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
   than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the
   vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the roadway.

   2201.10. The driver of any motor vehicle drawing another vehicle when
   traveling upon a roadway which is following another motor vehicle drawing
   another vehicle shall, whenever conditions permit, leave sufficient space so
   that an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the space in front of the
   drawing vehicle without danger, except that this shall not prevent a truck or
   motor vehicle drawing another vehicle from overtaking and passing any like
   vehicle or other vehicle.

   2201.11. No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, unless the
   movement can be made such that the vehicle can completely clear the
   intersection without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
   notwithstanding any official traffic control device indication to proceed. A
   vehicle shall not enter an intersection to turn right or left unless there is
   sufficient space on the roadway being entered to accommodate the vehicle.

   2201.12. No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access
   roadway except at such entrances and exits as are established by the Director.

   2201.13. The Director may regulate or prohibit the use of any
   controlled-access roadway or highway by any class or kind of traffic which is
   found to be incompatible with the normal and safe movement of traffic.

   2201.14. The Director shall erect and maintain official traffic control
   devices on the controlled access highway on which such prohibitions are
   applicable and, when in place, no person shall disobey restrictions on such
   devices.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 3064 (June 16, 1995).
