                                  DC REGULATIONS

CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECK AND CHILD PROTECTION REGISTER CHECK (ยง 29-6805)

6805.1. At the choice of the applicant, the criminal background checks
   required under this chapter may be obtained directly through the Metropolitan
   Police Department (MPD) or through CFSA.

   6805.2. If the criminal background check is obtained through CFSA, CFSA shall
   pay the cost of the criminal background check for the legal custodian or
   guardian, and any other grandparent, great-aunt or great-uncle who resides in
   the home.

   6805.3. This section shall not preclude an agency other than CFSA from paying
   for all or part of the cost of the criminal background check.

   6805.4. In the event a criminal background check reveals a crime of violence
   or a crime against a child, CFSA shall review the conviction and determine
   whether the applicant is able to provide for the health, safety and welfare of
   the child in light of:
   
   
   
   (a)	When the crime occurred;
   
   
   
   (b)	The nature of the crime;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any efforts made by the individual who has the criminal history to alter
   his or her behavior; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any other factors that assist CFSA in assessing the health, safety and
   welfare of the child.

   6805.5. In the event that a child protection register check reveals that an
   individual is identified as the abuser or neglecter in a substantiated child
   abuse or neglect case, CFSA shall review the results and determine whether the
   applicant is able to provide for the health, safety and welfare of the child
   in light of:
   
   
   
   (a)	When the child abuse or neglect occurred;
   
   
   
   (b)	The nature of the child abuse or neglect;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any efforts made by the individual who has the criminal history to alter
   his or her behavior; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any other factors that assist CFSA in assessing the health, safety and
   welfare of the child.

   6805.6. CFSA may determine that an applicant is ineligible for a subsidy if it
   determines that the applicant not able to provide for the health, safety and
   welfare of the child after conducting a review in accordance with ยง 6805.4 or
   6805.5.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 5837 (July 21, 2006); as amended
   by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 12482 (December 12, 2008).
