                                  DC REGULATIONS

RETAIL INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS[COLON] ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES (ยง 16-105)

105.1. In addition to the disclosures required under ยง 101, the additional
   disclosures set forth in this section are required to be set out in a retail
   installment contract, separately and below any disclosures required under ยง
   101, if not made in connection with ยง 101.

   105.2. To the extent that the disclosure of &#8220;cash price&#8221; includes
   the cash price of delivery, installation, servicing, repairs, alterations or
   improvements, the charge made for such items shall be stated. For the purposes
   of this chapter, the amount by which the cash price stated in a retail
   installment contract exceeds the cash price of goods or services offered by
   the seller to other buyers in the ordinary course of business shall be deemed
   a finance charge.

   105.3. Each retail installment contract shall include the name, address, and
   telephone number, if any, of both the seller and the buyer.

   105.4. Each retail installment contract shall contain a description of the
   goods or services purchased, including, where applicable, the trade name, and
   the model number of the goods.

   105.5. If the goods are used, seconds, or damaged, the contract shall so
   state.

   105.6. If the seller takes collateral to secure the buyer&#8217;s obligations
   under the agreement, a description of the collateral shall be set forth in the
   contract.

   105.7. The seller shall disclose whether a financial benefit could inure to
   the seller by way of commission, rebate, or otherwise resulting from the
   buyer&#8217;s obtaining any insurance coverage offered or arranged for by the
   seller if the seller, in connection with a retail installment contract, offers
   or arranges for any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Credit life, accident, or health insurance;
   
   
   
   (b)	Insurance against loss of or damage to property;
   
   
   
   (c)	Insurance against liability arising out of ownership or use of property;
   or
   
   
   
   (d)	Insurance protecting the seller against the buyer&#8217;s default or other
   credit loss.
