                                  DC REGULATIONS

DUTIES ON REPOSSESSION AND BUYER&#8217;S RIGHT OF REDEMPTION (ยง 16-119)

119.1. Within five (5) days after any consumer goods are repossessed, the
   seller or subsequent assignee shall deliver to the buyer personally, or send
   to the buyer by registered or certified mail to his or her last known address,
   a written notice stating the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A general description of the goods and a statement that the goods have
   been repossessed;
   
   
   
   (b)	The buyer&#8217;s right to redeem and the amount due and payable;
   
   
   
   (c)	The buyer&#8217;s rights with respect to resale of the goods; and
   
   
   
   (d)	The exact address where the consumer goods are stored and the exact
   address where any payment is to be made or notice delivered.

   119.2. For thirty (30) days after notice has been delivered personally or
   mailed, the seller or assignee shall retain the repossessed goods, during
   which period the buyer may redeem the goods and become entitled to take
   possession of the goods.

   119.3. If the seller or assignee does not maintain a place of business within
   the District at which the buyer may exercise redemption rights, goods
   repossessed within the District may not be removed from the District unless
   the goods are repossessed pursuant to legal process and an adequate bond is
   posted to protect the buyer.

   119.4. Whenever repossessed goods are removed from the District, no fee or
   cost shall be charged to the buyer for transporting the goods outside the
   District, and upon redemption the goods shall be returned and made available
   to the buyer within the District without additional transportation charges.

   119.5. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the redemption
   period provided in this section may be waived by written agreement between the
   buyer and the seller following repossession of the goods.

   119.6. To redeem the consumer goods, the buyer shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Pay or tender the amount due under the installment contract;
   
   
   
   (b)	Perform or tender performance of any other promise for the breach of which
   the consumer goods were repossessed; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Pay actual and reasonable charges for repossession and storage.
