                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPOINTMENT OF ATTORNEY-IN-FACT OR GENERAL AGENT (ยง 16-103)

103.1. Each person covered under this chapter who is a nonresident of the
   District shall appoint or employ and maintain in the District an
   attorney-in-fact or general agent upon whom all judicial and other process or
   legal notice directed to the nonresident may be served relative to conduct
   subject to this chapter or other laws relating to retail installment
   transactions.

   103.2. The attorney-in-fact or general agent appointed or employed under this
   section must be a resident of the District.

   103.3. The nonresident registrant shall notify the Department of the
   appointment or employment and the name and address of the appointee or
   employee.

   103.4. Within five (5) business days after any change in the appointment or
   employment of the attorney-in-fact or general agent, the nonresident
   registrant shall notify the Department of the identity and the address of the
   substituted appointee or employee.

   103.5. If a person fails to appoint or maintain a registered agent in the
   District, or whenever the registered agent cannot with reasonable diligence be
   found at the registered office of that person in the District, or whenever the
   registration of that person shall be revoked, the Department shall be an agent
   upon whom any process or other legal notice may be served and upon whom any
   notice or demand required or permitted by law to be served upon such person
   may be served.

   103.6. Service on the Department of any process, notice, or demand shall be
   made by delivering to and leaving with the Director of the Department or the
   Director&#8217;s designated agent duplicate copies of the process, notice, or
   demand.

   103.7. If the Department is served under ยง 103.5, the Department shall cause
   one copy of the process, notice, or demand to be forwarded by registered or
   certified mail to the last known address of the registrant.

   103.8. The Department shall keep a record of all processes, notices, and
   demands served upon it under this section, and shall record the time of the
   service and the action taken by the Department under ยง 103.7.
