                                  DC REGULATIONS

CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS (§ 16-121)

121.1. If the Director of the Department has a reasonable basis to believe
   that any person has violated this chapter, he or she may give notice to that
   person of intent to hold a hearing to determine whether a cease and desist
   order with respect to the violation(s) should be issued.

   121.2. The hearing shall be scheduled not sooner than fifteen (15) days from
   the date of the notice.

   121.3. The notice to be given by the Department shall state the time and place
   for the hearing and the basis upon which the Department proposes to suspend
   the registrant&#8217;s registration.

   121.4. The notice shall be served upon the registrant personally or be served
   by one of the following means:
   
   
   
   (a)	By leaving the notice at the last business address (or home address, if
   there is no business address) of which the Department has been given notice by
   the registrant; or
   
   
   
   (b)	By mailing the notice by certified mail to the last business address (or
   home address if there is no business address) of which the Department has been
   given notice by the registrant; or
   
   
   
   (c)	In accordance with § 103, if the registrant is a non-resident.

   121.5. Notice of the hearing shall be published in the D.C. Register at least
   fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing.

   121.6. The Department shall conduct the hearing in accordance with the
   provisions of § 10 of the D.C. Administrative Procedure Act (D.C. Code §
   1-1509 (1981 Ed.)).

   121.7. At the conclusion of the hearing, if the Director of the Department or
   his or her designee determines, upon the preponderance of testimony and
   evidence, that the person complained against has violated this chapter, the
   Director or designee shall do one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	State the findings and issue an order requiring the person complained
   against to cease and desist from the unlawful conduct and to take such
   affirmative action including restitution as will effectuate the purposes of
   this chapter, with notice that if the Department determines that the person
   complained against has not, after fifteen (15) calendar days following service
   of its order, corrected the unlawful practice and complied with the order, the
   Director of the Department will certify the matter to the Corporation Counsel
   and to such other agencies, as may be appropriate, for enforcement; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Immediately certify the matter to the Corporation Counsel for civil or
   criminal enforcement pursuant to this chapter.

   121.8. Failure to comply with an order issued pursuant to this section shall
   constitute grounds for suspension of registration under § 120.

   121.9. Any certification under this subsection, for the purpose of a civil
   proceeding, shall constitute a determination that there exists a prima facie
   case of violation of this chapter.

   121.10. The Corporation Counsel may institute such civil proceedings in the
   name of the District of Columbia in an appropriate court, including the
   seeking of such restraining orders and temporary or permanent injunctions as
   are necessary to obtain complete compliance with the orders of the Department.

   121.11. If, at any time after a complaint has been filed, the Director of the
   Department believes that appropriate civil action to preserve the status quo
   or to prevent irreparable harm appears advisable, the Director shall certify
   the matter to the Corporation Counsel who may bring, in the name of the
   District of Columbia, in an appropriate court, any action necessary to
   preserve such status quo or to prevent such harm, including the seeking of
   temporary restraining orders and preliminary injunctions.

   121.12. If, at the conclusion of the hearing, the Director or his or her
   designee shall determine upon the preponderance of the testimony and evidence,
   that the person complained against has not violated this chapter, the Director
   or designee shall state his or her findings and issue an order dismissing the
   complaint.
