                                  DC REGULATIONS

DIRECTOR OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS AUTHORITY TO OBTAIN INFORMATION (§ 3-5303)

5303.1. The Director of Government Ethics (Director) shall have the authority
   to obtain documents, written reports, and answers relating to the enforcement
   of the Government Ethics Act of 2011 (Act), Title II of the Board of Ethics
   and Government Accountability Establishment and Comprehensive Ethics Reform
   Amendment Act of 2011, effective April 27, 2012 (D.C. Law 19-124; D.C.
   Official Code § 1-1161.01 et seq.) (2012 Supp.).

   5303.2. The Director’s authority includes the power to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Require any person to submit, within a reasonable period and under oath
   	or otherwise as the Director may determine, documents, written reports, 	and
   answers to questions that the Director of Government Ethics may 	propound
   relating to the administration and enforcement of the Act;
   
   
   
   (b)	Administer oaths;
   
   
   
   (c)	Require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
   	production of all documentary evidence relating to the execution of the
   	Ethics Board&#8217;s duties; provided, that a subpoena issued under this
   	paragraph shall be issued by the Director of Government Ethics only upon
   	approval of a majority of the Ethics Board and served either personally or
   	by certified or registered mail on the individual named in the subpoena, or
   	by other means agreed to by the witness named in the subpoena;
   
   
   
   (d)	Order testimony to be taken by deposition in a proceeding or investigation
   	before any person who is designated by the Director and has the power to
   	administer oaths and, in such instances, to compel testimony and the
   	production of evidence in the same manner as authorized under the Act;
   
   
   
   (e)	Pay witnesses the same fees and mileage as are paid in like circumstances
   	in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Retain, on a temporary basis, consultants, including attorneys or others,
   on 	a paid or pro bono basis.

   5303.3. If an employee or official of the District government has been
   properly served a request for information or documents, or notice of
   deposition and any applicable witness fee, and that employee or official fails
   to respond to such a request or appear or participate in a deposition, then
   the Director or the Board may notify the supervisor or superior of that
   employee or official and recommend that appropriate personnel action be
   commenced for such failure.  Nothing in this section shall affect the ability
   of the Board to seek enforcement of a subpoena before the Superior Court of
   the District of Columbia.
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 747 (January 25, 2013).
