                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROJECT AND SPONSOR BASED HOUSING ASSISTANCE (ยง 14-9504)

9504.1. Project-based and Sponsor-based housing shall be operated and
   administered in accordance with DCHA HCVP rules and regulations governing HCVP
   project based assistance and the Partnership Program for Affordable Housing
   described in Chapter 93 of Title 14 of the District of Columbia Municipal
   Regulations, including, but not limited to, the execution of Long Term Subsidy
   Contracts with the Housing Provider unless specified otherwise in this
   Chapter.

   9504.2. Pending LRSP funding availability, Long Term Subsidy Contracts for
   Project-based and Sponsor-based rental units shall have an initial term of up
   to fifteen (15) years.

   9504.3. Payments under a Long Term Subsidy Contract may be paid as each rental
   unit in a project is leased to an eligible household as opposed to waiting
   until the project is fully occupied.

   9504.4. LRSP funding is available for up to one hundred percent (100%) of the
   eligible rental units in any Project-based or Sponsor-based housing or such
   lesser percentage as may be determined by DCHA without regard to the type of
   households being served.

   9504.5. LRSP funding may be available for eligible rental units in any
   Project-based or Sponsor-based housing with some or all operating costs
   subsidized by some other source of funds besides the LRSP, but for which the
   other subsidy(s) alone does not make the rental units affordable to
   income-eligible households unless prohibited or determined by DCHA otherwise.

   9504.6. To maintain consistency for households receiving the LRSP funding, the
   DCHA shall, to the extent possible given funding resources available in the
   LRSP, continue to fund Project-based and Sponsor-based Housing Providers at
   rent levels, with adjustments from year to year, in accordance with the
   procedures and the amount of adjustments authorized in the HCVP or as
   determined by DCHA. Such continued funding shall also be based on continued
   compliance by the Housing Provider with this Chapter and HCVP rules and
   regulations.

   9504.7. Project-based and Sponsor-based funds left &#8220;unobligated&#8221;
   at the end of each DCHA fiscal year shall be added to the LRSP funding for
   next fiscal year. Funds are left unobligated when there are no applications
   pending and there are no outstanding Requests for Proposals (RFPs) in which
   the respondents could use LRSP funding.

   9504.8. Dollars allocated to Project-based and Sponsor-based housing
   assistance shall be based on a sum of the new fiscal year funding plus any
   &#8220;unobligated&#8221; Project-based and Sponsor-based carryover funds from
   the previous fiscal year.

   9504.9. Single Resident Occupancy (SROs) units are eligible for Project-based
   and Sponsor-based housing assistance.

   9504.10. Long Term Subsidy Contracts for Project-based and Sponsor-based
   housing assistance shall be awarded on a competitive basis as currently
   provided in Chapter 93 of Title 14 of the District of Columbia Municipal
   Regulations, as amended, which identifies the HCVP Partnership Program for
   Affordable Housing application and award process. Also, in furtherance of
   providing Project- based and Sponsor-based housing assistance, DCHA shall
   coordinate with District of Columbia agencies and departments, including, but
   not limited to, the Department of Housing and Community Development, District
   of Columbia Housing Finance Agency, Department of Human Services, and
   Department of Mental Health.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 10313 (December 29, 2006).
