                                  DC REGULATIONS

ELIGIBILITY AND ADMISSIONS, CRIMINAL HISTORY AND DETERMINATION OF RENT
APPLICABLE TO SPONSOR-BASED HOUSING ASSISTANCE (§ 14-9508)

9508.1 	 The regulations set forth below in this Section shall govern
   eligibility and admissions, criminal history and determination of rent for
   Sponsor-Based Assistance under the LRSP. Except as provided in Chapter 9500 et
   seq., the rules and regulations applicable to the HCVP shall govern
   eligibility and admission, review of criminal history and determination of
   rent for the Sponsor-Based Assistance under the LRSP.
   
   
   
   9508.2 	DCHA shall determine eligibility of applicants to be housed by a
   Sponsor with sponsor-based assistance under LRSP. In order to determine
   eligibility, DCHA will review the following documents which shall be executed
   and/or completed, as appropriate by the applicant and submitted by or on
   behalf of an applicant to DCHA’s Client Placement Division:
   
   
   
   (a)    Privacy Act Notice;
   
   
   
   (b)   Social Security Number Certifications:
   
   
   
   (1)   Social Security Numbers for each Household Member 6 years old or
   older; or
   
   
   
   (2)  Certification of inability to meet the documentation requirement where
   an applicant has a Social Security Number but no documentation; or
   
   
   
   (3)  Certification that Social Security Numbers have not been issued;
   
   
   
   (c)    Verification of Date of Birth for each Household Member in the form
   of any of the 		 following:
   
   
   
   (1) Birth certificate; or
   
   
   
   (2) Valid government issued identification which includes the date of birth;
   or
   
   
   
   (3) Other evidence of birth.
   
   
   
   (d)   Government issued ID for family members age eighteen (18) or older;
   
   
   
   (e)    Statement of Child Care Expense Form;
   
   
   
   (f)    Verification of Full-time Student Status Form;
   
   
   
   (g)   Certification of Disability Form;
   
   
   
   (h)   Evidence and Verification of Income:
   
   
   
   (1) Documentation evidencing employment, pension, retirement or other income  
      to the extent applicable to the applicant; and
   
   
   
    		(2) Income Maintenance Administration and/or Social Security
   Administration; or
   
   
   
   (3) Electronic Database Checks.
   
   
   
   		(i) 	Verification of residency in the District of Columbia. The applicant
   shall provide 	evidence to demonstrate the following:
   
   
   
   (1) Applicant has resided in the District of Columbia at least six (6) months
   prior to application for LRSP as demonstrated by any valid, non-expired
   government identification (e.g. DMV, IMA identification, passport) issued at
   least six (6) months prior to application; or
   
   
   
   (2) Applicant has lived in the District of Columbia during any six (6) of the
   last twelve (12) months, prior to LRSP application. Any of the following
   documents shall demonstrate residency within the District of Columbia for this
   time period:
   
   
   
   (A)	Benefit records addressed to a District of Columbia address; or
   
   
   
   (B)	Medicaid records or medical records; or
   
   
   
   (C)	Bank records; or
   
   
   
   (D)	Employment records; or
   
   
   
   (E)	Tax records; or
   
   
   
   (F)	Housing or lease records; or
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Affidavit of homeless shelter, social service provider, non-profit
   organization or religious organization where the applicant has been residing
   or with which they have been engaged.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   To the extent that an applicant who is referred by a sponsor receiving
   sponsor-based assistance, cannot submit documentation set forth in Section
   9508.2(i)  above, DCHA shall accept referrals for eligibility and may deem
   eligible in accordance with the applicable rules set forth above, applicants
   who are residents of the District of Columbia as defined in DC Code Section
   4-205.03. With respect to each sponsor, the number of applicants admitted
   under this subsection shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total number
   of vouchers allotted to such sponsor on an annual basis.
   
   
   
   	(j)	Release of information form; and
   
   
   
   	(k)	Such other forms as may be required by DCHA.
   
   
   
   9508.3   	An applicant who is referred by a sponsor receiving sponsor-based
   assistance and owes a debt arising out of a past participation in a federally
   funded housing program under Section 6109.4 (b) shall not be deemed ineligible
   for participation in the LRSP. Any subsequent application for assistance under
   a federally funded housing program or a locally funded program under than
   sponsor-based LRSP by a person previously deemed eligible under the rules
   governing the LRSP shall be governed by the then existing laws, rules and
   regulations governing eligibility for the applicable federal or local program.
   
   
   
   9508.4 	 In the event unfavorable information is received as a result of the
   investigation conducted regarding an applicant’s criminal history during the
   eligibility process, and the applicant cannot satisfactorily meet the
   mitigation factors set forth in Section 6109.6, a felony conviction shall not
   bar the applicant from being deemed eligible for assistance under the
   Sponsor-Based assistance under the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a) The Sponsor seeking to house the applicant agrees to provide appropriate
   supportive services tailored towards the offense committed by the applicant;
   and
   
   
   
   (b) The applicant demonstrates in writing a willingness to receive and
   participate in relevant case management services related to the offense for
   which the applicant was convicted.

   9508.5. In the event that the applicant has ever been convicted of
   drug-related criminal activity for manufacture or production of
   methamphetamine on the premises of federally assisted housing, and the
   applicant can satisfactorily  meet the mitigation factors set forth in Section
   6109.6, the applicant shall not be barred from being deemed eligible for
   assistance under the Sponsor-Based assistance.
   
   
   
   9508.6   	No mitigation in accordance with Section 6109.6 shall be required
   for offenses less than a felony conviction.

   9508.7. DCHA may on an annual basis adopt a payment standard for sponsor-based
   assistance   under the LRSP that exceeds the payment standard adopted for
   DCHA’s federally funded HCVP programs in accordance with Section 8300.3. 
   Such payment standard for sponsor-based assistance shall in no event exceed
   the submarket rents established in accordance with Section 8301.3.  In the
   event that the DCHA Board of Commissioners does not adopt a separate standard
   for any given fiscal year applicable to sponsor-based assistance, then the
   federal payment standard adopted pursuant to Section 8300.3 for DCHA’s
   federally funded HCVP programs shall apply to sponsor-based assistance under
   the LRSP.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: As amended by Final Rulemaking at 56 DCR 5101 (May 22, 2009)
