                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROPOSED COMPLIANCE ORDER OR PROPOSED CEASE AND DESIST ORDER (ยง 20-6602)

6602.1. If the Respondent upon whom a notice of violation or threatened
   violation has been served, fails to comply with the corrective measures
   required in the notice, the Director or his or her designee, may issue a
   proposed compliance order or a proposed cease and desist order to the
   Respondent.

   6602.2. A proposed compliance order or proposed cease and desist order shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Include a statement of the facts, the nature of alleged violations
   including citation of the specific regulation(s) involved, and the legal
   grounds for relief;
   
   
   
   (b)	Allow a reasonable time for compliance with the order consistent with the
   likelihood for harm and the need to protect health, safety, life, property,
   and the environment;
   
   
   
   (c)	Advise the Respondent that he or she has a right to a hearing and to legal
   representation;
   
   
   
   (d)	Inform the Respondent of any scheduled hearing date or the actions which
   the Respondent must take to obtain a hearing and the consequences of failure
   to comply with the proposed order or request a hearing;
   
   
   
   (e)	Set forth the action or actions which the Respondent must take or the
   activity or activities which the Respondent must cease in order to comply with
   the order; and
   
   
   
   (f)	State the amount of any penalties to be assessed for failure to comply
   with the order.

   6602.3. A proposed compliance order, proposed cease and desist order, a
   summons or accompanying instructions shall be served by one of the following
   methods:
   
   
   
   (a)	Personal service on the named Respondent or the Respondent&#8217;s
   authorized agent for service;
   
   
   
   (b)	Delivering to the last known home or business address of the named
   Respondent and leaving it with a person over the age of eighteen (18) years
   residing or employed therein; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Mailing, via United States Postal Service first class, certified, postage
   prepaid to the last known home or business address of the named Respondent or
   the Respondent&#8217;s agent; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Any other means set forth in D.C. Law 8-242.

   6602.4. A proposed compliance order, proposed cease and desist order, a
   summons or accompanying instructions shall state whether the Respondent is
   required to file an answer thereto, the time within which to respond, and the
   form of response required.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7835, 7916 (November 12, 1993);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999).
