                                  DC REGULATIONS

IMMEDIATE COMPLIANCE ORDERS, IMMEDIATE CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS (ยง 20-6606)

6606.1. The Director, or his or her designee, may issue an immediate
   compliance order or an immediate cease and desist order to require a person to
   correct a situation which immediately threatens health or the environment or
   to restrain any person from engaging in any unauthorized activity that
   immediately endangers or causes damage to public health or the environment.

   6606.2. When an immediate compliance order, or immediate cease and desist
   order, is authorized under this section, it shall not be necessary to first
   issue a notice of violation or proposed compliance order pursuant to ยง 6601
   or 6602 or to provide reasonable notice and an opportunity for a hearing
   pursuant to ยง 6602.

   6606.3. An immediate compliance order or immediate cease and desist order
   issued pursuant to this section shall be served in the same manner as a
   proposed compliance order or proposed cease and desist order is served
   pursuant to ยง 6602.4.

   6606.4. An immediate compliance order or immediate cease and desist order
   shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Include a statement of the nature of the situation or violation;
   
   
   
   (b)	Take effect at the time and on the date signed;
   
   
   
   (c)	Identify the action or actions to be taken or ceased; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Include a statement advising the Respondent that he or she has a right to
   request a hearing before an ALJ within the OAD within seventy-two (72) hours
   of service of the order upon him or her, and that if a hearing is not
   requested within that time period, the order will become final.

   6606.5. A hearing request shall not stay the effective date of the order.

   6606.6. If a hearing is requested, the hearing shall be held within fifteen
   (15) days from the date that the hearing request is received by OAD and the
   ALJ shall issue a decision, including findings of fact and conclusions of law,
   no later than fifteen (15) days after the hearing.

   6606.7. Any situation or activity, related to underground storage tanks
   regulated by this Subtitle, that is conducted in violation of these
   regulations or that endangers or causes damage to public health or the
   environment shall warrant a prohibition on delivery of product through
   issuance of an immediate cease and desist order, including but not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a) 	An accumulation of toxic, flammable or explosive vapors in a structure,
   sewer or excavation;
   
   
   
   (b) 	Floating free product on surface or ground water;
   
   
   
   (c) 	Potential for migration of release to surface waters or other sensitive
   environmental receptors;
   
   
   
   (d) 	An open pit or excavation that is not secured properly during or left in
   place after corrective action;
   
   
   
   (e) 	Anything which may cause potential exposure of humans, plants or animals
   to hazardous substances; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Missing or inoperable spill prevention, overfill protection, release
   detection, or corrosion protection required equipment or material.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 40 DCR 7835, 7920 (November 12, 1993);
   as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699 (October 1, 1999); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 6678 (August 21, 2009).
