                                  DC REGULATIONS

COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES (SP) (§ 11-507)

507.1. A college or university that is an academic institution of higher
   learning, including a college or university hospital, dormitory, fraternity,
   or sorority house proposed to be located on the campus of a college or
   university, shall be permitted in an SP District if approved by the Zoning
   Commission as a special exception under § 3104, subject to the provisions of
   this section.

   507.2. Upon receiving an application for an approval under this section, the
   Commission shall submit the application to the D.C. Office of Planning for
   coordination, review, report, and impact assessment, along with reviews in
   writing from all relevant District departments and agencies, including the
   Departments of Transportation and Housing and Community Development, and, if a
   historic landmark or historic district is involved, the State Historic
   Preservation Officer.

   507.3. The applicant shall have submitted and the Commission shall have
   approved a plan for developing the campus as a whole.

   507.4. The plan required in § 507.3 shall show the location, height, and
   bulk, where appropriate, of all present and proposed improvements, including
   but not limited to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Buildings, parking and loading facilities, screening, signs, streets, and
   public utility facilities;
   
   
   
   (b)	Athletic and other recreational facilities;
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of all activities conducted or to be conducted in the
   proposed facilities; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A description of the capacity of all present and proposed campus
   development.

   507.5. The plan required in § 507.3 may provide for the interim use, for a
   limited period of time, of land or improved property with any use that is a
   proper college or university function.

   507.6. The Commission may approve the plan submitted in accordance with §§
   507.3 through 507.5, or any amendment to the plan, concurrent with an
   application for approval of a specific college or university building or use.

   507.7. In approving the submitted plan, the Commission shall determine that
   the use is located so that it is not likely to become objectionable to
   neighboring property because of noise, traffic, number of students, or other
   objectionable conditions.

   507.8. In approving any application for a specific college or university
   building or use, the Commission shall determine that the proposed building or
   use is consistent with the approved campus plan; and further, that it is not
   likely to become objectionable to neighboring property because of noise,
   traffic, number of students, or other objectionable conditions.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: § 4101.43 of the Zoning Regulations, effective May 12, 1958; as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 47 DCR 9725, 9732-33 (December 8,
   2000).
