                                  DC REGULATIONS

DOME LIGHT INSTALLATION BUSINESS LICENSE &#8211; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS (ยง
31-1502)

1502.1. The application for the initial and renewal dome light installation
   business license shall be filed on a form provided by the Office of Taxicabs
   and shall contain a sworn and notarized statement that the information
   contained therein is true under penalty of perjury.

   1502.2. License Application Requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	An individual applicant for a dome light installation business license
   shall:
   
   
   
   (1)	Provide proof of identity in the form of a valid photo identification
   issued by the United States, any state or territory thereof, or any political
   subdivision of such state or territory; and a valid, original social security
   card;
   
   
   
   (2)	Be at least eighteen (18) years of age; and
   
   
   
   (3)	Be of good moral character as reflected by the outcome of the report
   required in paragraph (d) of this subsection and in accordance with the
   guidelines in ยง 1001.12 of this title.
   
   
   
   (b)	An applicant that is a partnership shall provide the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A certified copy of the partnership certificate from the jurisdiction
   where the principal place of business is located.
   
   
   
   (2)	Each partner must satisfy the requirements for individual applicants set
   forth in ยง 1502.2(a).
   
   
   
   (c)	An applicant that is a corporation shall provide the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	A certified copy of its certificate of incorporation with a filing receipt
   issued by the Mayor, if incorporated less than one (1) year from the date of
   the license application or a certificate of good standing; or if incorporated
   more than one (1) year from the date of the license application, or if not a
   District of Columbia corporation, a copy of the certificate of incorporation,
   filing receipt, and authority to do business within the District of Columbia;
   
   
   
   (2)	A list of its officers and shareholders, including names, residence
   addresses, telephone numbers, and percentage of ownership interest of each
   shareholder; and
   
   
   
   (3)	A certified copy of the minutes of the organizational meeting at which the
   current officers were elected.
   
   
   
   (d)	Each of the following persons shall be fingerprinted, for purposes of
   securing criminal history records from the Federal Bureau of Investigation:
   
   
   
   (1)	Each individual applicant;
   
   
   
   (2)	Each partner of a partnership applicant;
   
   
   
   (3)	Each officer or shareholder of a corporate applicant; and
   
   
   
   (4)	Each person who has provided funds either individually, or as a principal
   of a partnership or corporation, whether such funds were provided by gift,
   loan, or otherwise, in connection with the operation of the dome light
   installation business, unless such provider is a licensed bank or loan
   company. The applicant shall pay any processing fees required by the Office of
   Taxicabs or the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
   
   
   
   (e)	The Commission shall have the right to reject the proposed name of any
   dome light installation business that is substantially similar to any name in
   use by another dome light installation business licensee.
   
   
   
   (f)	Each license expires two (2) years from the date of issuance.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 14019 (December 7, 2012).
