                                  DC REGULATIONS

DOME LIGHT INSTALLATION BUSINESS – LIABILITY FOR CONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES (§
31-1520)

1520.1. A dome light installation business owner shall supervise and be
   responsible for the conduct of all of its employees, contractors, or agents,
   for the activities including, but not limited to, the sale, installation,
   inspection and testing of dome lights.

   1520.2. A dome light installation business owner shall ensure that all
   employees are fully familiar with the rules and regulations contained herein,
   as well as any other pertinent regulatory agency rules and regulations.

   1520.3. A dome light installation business shall employ only such persons who
   have been certified as dome light installation technicians by a dome light
   installation manufacturer to perform any installation, testing, or repair of
   the dome light on which work is being performed:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   Any work involving a dome light, including, but not limited to, installation,
   inspection, or repair shall be performed by a technician certified by the dome
   light installation manufacturer; and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   The certified technician shall be responsible for maintaining all records
   required by the Commission and shall place that technician’s signature on
   all inspection, testing, repair, or other reports.

   1520.4. A dome light installation business owner shall ensure that all
   employees perform their duties in compliance with all relevant federal and
   District laws, rules, and regulations.

   1520.5. A dome light installation business shall furnish to the Commission,
   upon licensure or renewal, the names of all certified dome light installation
   technicians employed by it and shall notify the Commission in writing of any
   changes in the employment of certified dome light installation technicians.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 14019 (December 7, 2012).
