                                  DC REGULATIONS

FILING AND SERVICE BY E-MAIL; OTHER ELECTRONIC SUBMISSIONS (§ 1-2841)

2841.1. This Section permits any party to file papers by e-mail with OAH and
   the Government to file data electronically.  It also permits OAH to serve
   orders and notices by e-mail.

   2841.2. The filing of any paper by e-mail following the procedures set forth
   in this Section constitutes filing for all purposes under these Rules.

   2841.3. All papers to be filed by e-mail should be in portable document format
   (PDF). The papers should be attached to an e-mail, and not contained in the
   body of the e-mail itself.

   2841.4. A party filing any paper by e-mail is responsible for any delay,
   disruption, interruption of electronic signals, legibility and completeness of
   the paper, and accepts the risk that the paper may not be filed.

   2841.5. Pursuant to Section 2810, every paper filed by e-mail must contain:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, mailing address, telephone number, and e-mail address of the
   person filing it;
   
   
   
   (b)	The case number assigned by OAH, or a statement that a case number has not
   yet been assigned;
   
   
   
   (c)	A brief description of the paper (for example, “request for hearing in a
   Medicaid matter,” “motion for new hearing date for an unemployment
   hearing,” “exhibits/documents for hearing in rental housing case”); and
   
   
   
   (d)	A filing that does not contain this information is subject to rejection. A
   cover page that can be used to satisfy this requirement is available from the
   Clerk’s Office.  The brief description of the paper also should be placed in
   the “subject” line of the e-mail.

   2841.6. Filings must be e-mailed to oah.filing@dc.gov.

   2841.7. The filing date for an e-mail filing received between 9:00 a.m. and
   5:00 p.m. on any OAH business day will be the date it is received in the
   correct OAH electronic mailbox. The filing date for an e-mail filing received
   at other times will be the next day that the Clerk’s Office is open for
   business. The date and time recorded in the correct OAH electronic mailbox
   shall be conclusive proof of when it was received.

   2841.8. The certification requirement of Section 2814 applies to all papers
   filed by e-mail.

   2841.9. A party must send a copy of anything filed by e-mail (except a request
   for a hearing that begins a case) to all other parties, and must include a
   certificate of service as required by Subsection 2811.9.  A party may not send
   the copy by e-mail unless the other party consents, pursuant to Section 2811.

   2841.10. The five (5) additional days added to the response times by
   Subsection 2812.5 does not apply to orders, notices, or papers served by
   e-mail, even if they are also served by other means.

   2841.11. Unless otherwise ordered, a party who files or serves any paper by
   e-mail shall keep the original until after the case is concluded and the time
   for any appeals has expired.  The party shall make the originals available for
   inspection upon request of another party after prior reasonable notice filed
   with OAH.  This Section does not limit the authority of an Administrative Law
   Judge to order production of the original.

   2841.12. Parties agreeing to service by e-mail are responsible for monitoring
   their e-mail accounts and for opening the e-mails.

   2841.13. The Clerk may serve orders and notices by e-mail to any party who
   provides an email address and consents, in writing or on the record, to
   receiving papers by e-mail.  The party is responsible for ensuring that the
   Clerk has an accurate, up-to-date e-mail address.  In an emergency, without a
   party’s advance consent, the Clerk may serve orders and notices by e-mail in
   addition to any other authorized method of service.

   2841.14. If the Government seeks to begin a case at OAH by filing a Notice of
   Infraction or a Notice of Violation pursuant to Section 2803, the Government
   may transfer to OAH data from the Notice of Infraction or the Notice of
   Violation by electronic means, pursuant to prior technical arrangements with
   OAH.  Such electronic transfer by itself neither begins a case nor satisfies
   the Government’s obligations under Section 2803.  The Government shall file
   the Notice of Infraction or Notice of Violation and its attachments,
   substantially in the form provided to the Respondent, as well as the proof of
   service.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 10327, 10328 (December
   9, 2011).
