                                  DC REGULATIONS

WRITTEN SUMMARY OF REASONS SUPPORTING SEIZURE AND CUSTODY (§ 24-1505)

The WHS humane officer who seized the animal shall prepare a written summary
explain the reasons why the humane officer seized the animal and why WHS
continues to retain custody of the animal.  An incident report qualifies as a
written summary under this chapter provided that it complies with § 1502.2.





	The written summary shall include:







The facts supporting the humane officer’s determination that seizure was
necessary to protect the animal from neglect or cruelty, if the seizure was made
pursuant to D.C. Official Code § 22-1004(b)(1);







The actions that the owner must take in order to regain custody of the animal;
and







If the humane officer determines that WHS cannot return the animal to the owner
without subjecting the animal to ongoing neglect or cruelty, the facts
supporting a determination that WHS should retain permanent custody of the
animal.







	The humane officer may append to the written summary:







	Documentary evidence collected during the course of the 	investigation,
	including written notes taken by the humane officer 	or other WHS 	employees;







	Physical evidence collected during the course of the investigation;







	Written statements by other WHS employees or third-party 	witnesses; and







	Medical reports based on first-hand examinations of the animal.







	The humane officer may seek assistance from other WHS employees in the
preparation of the written summary.







	The written summary, and any evidence appended to the summary, shall be
completed at least three (3) days before the date of the scheduled hearing.  The
completed written summary, and any evidence appended to the summary, shall be
made available to the respondent and his or her representative for examination
and/or duplication.  Any duplication costs shall be paid for by the respondent.







	The failure to make available to the respondent and his or her representatives
the written summary and any evidence appended to the summary is good cause for a
continuance of the hearing pursuant to § 1507.4.



Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 316
(January 9, 2009)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published
56 DCR 2374, 2377 (March 27, 2009).
