                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRE-HEARING PROCEDURES (§ 24-1507)

The President or his or her designee shall notify the respondent, both in
writing and, if possible, by phone, of the date, time, and place of the hearing.
 The notice shall be provided at least three (3) days in advance of the hearing.







	The hearing shall be held within ten (10) days of the date of the hearing
request, unless the time is extended for good cause.







	The notice of hearing shall:







Include a summary of or a copy of the rules governing the hearing process;







Advise the respondent:







	Of his or her right to be represented by a lawyer or other person at the
hearing, at the respondent’s own expense;







	Of the right to present documents and witnesses, including WHS employees, in
support of the appeal;







	Of the right to examine and duplicate, at respondent’s expense, the written
summary, and any evidence appended to the summary, described in § 1505 at least
three (3) days prior to the date of the hearing;







	Of the right to examine and duplicate, at respondent’s expense, the written
summary of expenses described in § 1506 at least three (3) days prior to the
date of the hearing;







	Of the right to examine any part of the case record, except for information
that the President or his or her designee classifies as confidential, at least
three (3) days prior to the hearing;







	That if the respondent or a witness is deaf or cannot readily understand or
communicate the spoken English language, the respondent may apply to WHS for the
appointment of a qualified interpreter and such services will be provided;







	Of the name and telephone number of the person to call if the respondent cannot
attend the hearing; and







	The failure to attend the hearing without good cause may result in dismissal of
the appeal.







	The respondent may request a change of the date, time, or place of the hearing.
 If the President or his or her designee finds that good cause for a change
exists, he or she shall set another date, time, or place for the hearing.  The
time limit established by § 1502.2 shall be extended by the period of delay.







	The respondent may request, in writing, assistance to secure the attendance at
the hearing of any WHS employee.  The request shall state the reasons why the
employee’s attendance is required.  If the President or his or her designee
decides that the employee’s attendance is necessary for the fair determination
of the issues on appeal, the President or his or her designee shall require the
employee, if still employed by WHS, to be present at the hearing.







	The President or his or her designee may require the presence at the hearing of
any WHS employee.







	The respondent may examine and/or duplicate the written summary, and any
evidence appended to that summary, described in § 1505 at least three (3) days
prior to the hearing.







	The respondent may examine and/or duplicate the written summary of expenses
described in § 1506 at least three (3) days prior to the hearing.







	The respondent may examine any part of the case record, except for information
that the President or her designee classifies as confidential, at least three
(3) days prior to the hearing.



Source: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 316
(January 9, 2009)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published
56 DCR 2374, 2379 (March 27, 2009).
