                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (§ 29-5599)

AFDC &#8211; the categorical eligibility designation for a person who is
eligible for Medicaid assistance because the person is eligible for cash
assistance from the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) program.



AFDC-related &#8211; the categorical eligibility designation for a person who is
eligible for Medicaid because the person is a pregnant woman with an income at
or below 185% of poverty as defined in federal regulations, a child under the
age of one in a family with an income at or below 133% of poverty, or a child
born after September 30, 1983 in a family with an income at or below 100% of
poverty.



Capitation rate &#8211; the fixed, monthly rate per covered person established
by the Department payable to a prepaid capitated provider for providing covered
services to the covered person.



Default &#8211; the inability of a health maintenance organization to provide
the services described in the Medicaid managed care provider agreement;
insolvency of an HMO health maintenance organization; or, failure of the health
maintenance organization to adhere to the provisions of the Medicaid managed
care provider agreement.



Department &#8211; the District of Columbia Department of Human Services or its
agent.



District &#8211; the District of Columbia.



Emergency medical care &#8211; care provided in response to the sudden
unexpected onset of a condition which may result in permanent physical injury or
a threat to life if care is not secured immediately after the onset of the
condition or as soon thereafter as care can be made available.



Enrollee &#8211; a Medicaid recipient who is enrolled in the plan of a health
maintenance organization primary care provider that has a Medicaid managed care
provider agreement with the Department.



Evidence of coverage &#8211; any certificate, agreement or contract issued to an
enrollee that sets forth the responsibilities of the enrollee and services to
which the enrollee is entitled.



Federally qualified health center &#8211; is a Federally Qualified Health Center
as defined in 42 C.F.R. §405.2340 &#8211; 2470.



Federally qualified health maintenance organization (FQHMO) &#8211; a health
maintenance organization (HMO) that has been determined by the U.S. Public
Health Service to be a qualified HMO under §1310(d) of the Public Health
Service Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 254c(d)(1).



Health care provider &#8211; any physician, hospital, or other person or
facility that provides health care services, but does not have a Medicaid
managed care agreement to furnish health care services to AFDC and AFDC-related
Medicaid recipients enrolled in the District’s Medicaid program.



Health Maintenance Organization &#8211; a public or private organization
operating in the District, which contract with the District government on a risk
comprehensive, other risk, or non-risk basis to provide comprehensive health,
maintenance, preventive and treatment services to AFDC and AFDC-related
recipients though its own network of physicians and hospitals for a fixed,
prepaid premium.



Involuntary disenrollment &#8211; the termination of membership of an enrollee
by the health maintenance organization under conditions permitted by this
chapter or the health maintenance organization’s Medicaid managed care
provider agreement.



Key Personnel &#8211; a Health Maintenance Organization’s President, Vice
President, Chief Executive Officer, Medical Director, Chief Financial Officer,
Director of Quality Improvement/Quality Assurance, Director of Operations,
Director of Management Information Systems, and Director of Health Services.



Lock in Period &#8211; the period between the first day of the second month and
the last day of the sixth month of enrollment, during which a recipient enrolled
in a prepaid, capitated provider that meets the requirements of 42 C.F.R.
§434.27(d)(1) may disenroll only under the conditions prescribed in §5501 of
these rules. Recipients shall not be locked into non-risk and other risk
contract plans.



Medicaid managed care provider agreement &#8211; the agreement between the
primary care provider and the Department that sets forth the responsibilities of
the prepaid, capitated or fee-for-service primary care provider and the District
government for providing or arranging for the provision of, and making payment
for all services that AFDC and AFDC-related recipients are entitled to receive
under the District’s Medicaid Managed Care Program.



Non-risk Contract &#8211; a contract in which the contractor is not at financial
risk for changes in the cost or utilization of services provided for in the
payment rate set at the beginning of the contract period. The contractor is
reimbursed for costs actually incurred, subject to the federal upper payment
limits described in 42 C.F.R. §447.362.



Other Risk Contract &#8211; a risk contract for a scope of services other than
those specified in 42 C.F.R. §434.21(b).



Prepaid, Capitated Provider &#8211; Any qualified organization or individual
willing and able to offer quality health care services to a District AFDC or
AFDC-related Medicaid recipient on an at-risk basis for a fixed, prepaid,
capitated fee shall be referred to throughout this chapter as a capitated
provider.



Prepaid health plan &#8211; an entity not subject to the requirements of
§1903(m)(2)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(m)(2)(A)) that
renders medical services to enrolled recipients under contract with the
Department on the basis of a prepaid, capitated fee.



Primary care physician &#8211; a qualified physician enrolled in the D.C.
Medicaid Managed Care program whose specialty is pediatrics,
obstetrics/gynecology, internal medicine, family medicine or general medicine.



Primary care provider &#8211; a qualified primary care physician, clinic,
hospital outpatient department, neighborhood health center, group or prepaid
capitated provider that has a contract with the District government to provide
primary care to AFDC and AFDC-related recipients enrolled in the D.C. Medicaid
Managed Care program and to coordinate referrals, when necessary, to other
health care providers.



Regional Administrator &#8211; The Administrator, Region III, Health Care
Financing Administration, United States Department of Health and Human Services.



Reinsurance &#8211; the insurance protection to be obtained by a capitated
provider for costs over a certain level incurred by a capitated provider for
services rendered to an enrollee.



Reserves &#8211; a sum of money accumulated by a health maintenance organization
that may be:



(a)	Applied against known liabilities not yet paid;



(b)	Used as a contingency for unanticipated expenses; or



(c)	Used for future services.



Risk Comprehensive Contract &#8211; a prepaid, capitated provider contract for a
scope of services specified in 42 C.F.R. §434.21(b), where the exposure to
financial loss is retained by the provider.



Start-up health maintenance organization &#8211; a health plan that has provided
prepaid health services to members for less than twelve (12) months at the time
application is made to participate in the D.C. Medicaid Managed Care Program, or
that has not provided prepaid health services in the District.



Stop loss &#8211; protection that limits the financial liability of an at-risk,
prepaid capitated provider for expenses incurred for rendering services to an
enrollee under a prepaid Medicaid managed care provider agreement.



Subcontract &#8211; any written agreement between a health maintenance
organization primary care provider and another party that requires the other
party to provide services or benefits that the managed care provider is required
to provide, or provide for pursuant to a Medicaid managed care provider
agreement.



Voluntary disenrollment &#8211; the voluntary termination of membership in a
provider’s managed care plan by an enrollee under conditions permitted by this
chapter or the health maintenance organization’s or primary care provider’s
Medicaid managed care provider agreement.



	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 1566, 1600 (March 31, 1995).
