                                  DC REGULATIONS

NOTICE OF HEARING AND RIGHTS TO DOCUMENTS (§ 14-8903)

8903.1 	Requests for an Informal Hearing shall follow the following guidelines:







Requests for an Informal Hearing or extension of time to request an Informal
Hearing shall be reduced to writing.







DCHA may assist participants in reducing requests for an Informal Hearing or
extension of time to request an Informal Hearing to writing to comply with §
8903.1(a).







Any assistance provided by DCHA to reduce a request to writing shall not be
deemed the provision of legal advice to the participant.







Participants shall either mail via first class mail or personally deliver to
DCHA’s Office of Fair Hearings their request for an Informal Hearing or
request for an extension of time to request an Informal Hearing.  If personally
delivered, DCHA shall provide a receipt to the participant noting that the
request for an Informal Hearing was received and the date it was received.







If the request for an Informal Hearing is mailed to DCHA, the request shall be
postmarked within thirty-five (35) calendar days from:







the postmark date of DCHA&#8217;s notification under § 8902; or



(2) 	the notice of an action or determination by DCHA.







If the request for an Informal Hearing is personally delivered to DCHA, the
request must be received by DCHA’s Office of Fair Hearings within thirty-five
(35) calendar days from:







the postmark date of DCHA&#8217;s notification under § 8902; or







the date of the issuance of the notice of a challenged action.







Requests to reschedule an Informal Hearing shall be subject to the following
conditions:







Either party may request to reschedule an Informal Hearing for the convenience
of the party up to three (3) calendar days prior to the first scheduled Informal
Hearing date, with or without a showing of good cause.







Either party may request to reschedule an Informal Hearing any time prior to the
first scheduled Informal Hearing date or prior to any subsequent hearing date,
only if the requesting party can demonstrate good cause and if delay will not
result in harm or prejudice to the other party.







Notwithstanding the paragraph above, the Office of Fair Hearings will reschedule
an Informal Hearing as a reasonable accommodation if the participant can
demonstrate that a disability prevented them from rescheduling within the
prescribed time periods.







Once a timely request for an Informal Hearing has been filed, the Housing
Assistance Payments (HAP) will continue to the current landlord in accordance
with the current HAP contract in effect at the time of the request for an
Informal Hearing until a final determination is made in accordance with this
chapter.







If a participant has not submitted a timely request for an Informal Hearing per
§ 8903.1, but still desires an Informal Hearing to be held, the participant
must file a “Good Cause Hearing” request.  The Good Cause Hearing request
shall explain the reason or reasons that the participant failed to comply with
the requirements of § 8903.1.



8903.2  	Good Cause Hearings shall follow the following guidelines:







A participant can only request a Good Cause Hearing if the participant has been
terminated from the Housing Choice Voucher Program.







If the Office of Fair Hearings receives an Informal Hearing request that does
not comply with the deadlines in § 8903.1, the Office of Fair Hearings will
notify the participant in writing of the right to request a Good Cause Hearing.







Any Good Cause Hearing Request received more than sixty (60) calendar days after
the date of the issuance of the notice pursuant to § 8903.2(a) shall be denied
as untimely and barred.







If the Office of Fair Hearings does not schedule a Good Cause Hearing within
thirty (30) calendar days of the participants’ timely request, then DCHA shall
automatically reinstate any relevant benefits retroactive to the date of
termination, pending the issuance of a decision following a Good Cause Hearing.







The sole issue for determination in the Good Cause Hearing shall be whether the
participant had good cause for failing to timely request an Informal Hearing.







In determining whether the participant has demonstrated good cause, the Hearing
Officer shall consider the following factors:







Whether and when the participant received notice of the challenged DCHA
determination, action, or inaction; and







Any mitigating circumstances related to the untimely filing of the request for
an Informal Hearing, including but not limited to circumstances related to the
participant’s disability, incapacity, or an emergency affecting the
participant or a member of the participant’s household.







At the Good Cause Hearing, the Hearing Officer shall not hear evidence or
address the merits of the participant’s underlying challenge to the DCHA’s
action, inaction or determination.  The Hearing Officer shall only consider
evidence regarding the timeliness of the request and the factors listed in §
8903.2(f) at the Good Cause Hearing.







In the event that the Hearing Officer hears the merits of the underlying
challenged DCHA action or determination, either party may request the Executive
Director or his/her designee to vacate the Hearing Officer’s decision and
reschedule the Good Cause Hearing with another impartial Hearing Officer in
accordance with the provisions above.







The Hearing Officer shall make his or her best effort to render a decision on
the good cause showing on the same day that the Good Cause Hearing is held, but
shall render a decision no more than three (3) business days after the Good
Cause Hearing.



8903.3 	The following process for scheduling and issuing Informal Hearing and
Good Cause Hearing notification letters shall apply:







When the Office of Fair Hearings receives a timely written request for an
Informal Hearing or a Good Cause Hearing the following provisions apply:







The Office of Fair Hearings shall mail a letter notifying the participant of the
date and time of the Hearing within fifteen (15) calendar days of the postmark
date of the hearing request if the hearing request is mailed to the Office of
Fair Hearings, or within fifteen (15) calendar days of the receipt if the
hearing request is hand-delivered to the Office of Fair Hearings.







The Office of Fair Hearings notification letter shall also be mailed to any
representative of the participant who is identified by name and address on the
request for the Hearing or who has entered his or her appearance since then.







The Office of Fair Hearings shall deliver a letter notifying the DCHA Office of
General Counsel of the date and time of the Hearing within fifteen (15) calendar
days of the postmark date of the hearing request.







The date of the hearing shall be no sooner than fifteen (15) calendar days and
no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the postmark date of the Office of
Fair Hearings letter notifying the participant of the date and time of the
Hearing.



(b)      All notification letters for Hearings shall contain:







The date and time of the Hearing;







The location of the Hearing;







The participant’s right to bring evidence, witnesses, and legal or other
representation at the participant’s expense;







The right to view, or have their counsel or other representative view, subject
to a timely request under § 8903.4 any documents in the participant&#8217;s
file, or any evidence in the possession of DCHA, upon which DCHA based the
proposed action, inaction or determination, or that DCHA intends to rely on at
the Hearing;







The right to obtain, subject to a timely request under Section 8903.4, a copy of
documents or evidence in the possession of DCHA prior to the Hearing and notice
that DCHA shall provide the copies pursuant to § 8903.4; and







The participant must provide to the Office of the General Counsel copies of any
documents or evidence the participant intends to use at the Hearing at least
three (3) business days prior to the scheduled Hearing.



(c) 	If DCHA provides evidence that it mailed the notice via first class mail in
the ordinary course of business to the participant’s address of record and the
notice was not returned to DCHA, then the participant shall be presumed to have
received the notice. The participant bears the burden of rebutting this
presumption by providing sufficient evidence that the notice was not received.



8903.4 	The following rules shall apply to the Production of Documents:







DCHA shall make copies of requested documents for the participant. DCHA shall
provide the first seventy-five (75) such pages to the participant at no charge
and shall charge twenty-five (25) cents per page for each page in excess of
seventy-five (75).  If the documents are provided electronically or on a CD,
DCHA is authorized to charge for the cost of the CD and the total number of
pages produced electronically.







Upon request by a participant or its representative to review and/or copy any
documents in the participant&#8217;s file, DCHA shall make such documents
available to the participant, or its representative for review and/or copying
either within twenty-one (21) calendar days of the request or seven (7) calendar
days prior to the Informal Hearing date, whichever is sooner.







In no case shall the participant, or its representatives, be allowed to remove a
file from DCHA&#8217;s office.



SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 7193, 7195-97 (July 26,
2002); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13170 (September 20,
2013).
