                                  DC REGULATIONS

INFORMAL HEARING PROCEDURES (ยง 14-8904)

8904.1. Participant Families or applicants have the right to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Examine any document in the applicant&#8217;s or participant&#8217;s file
   and any other documents that DCHA submits to the Hearing Officer;
   
   
   
   (b)	Present written or oral objections to the DCHA&#8217;s determination;
   
   
   
   (c)	Present any information or witnesses pertinent to the issue of the
   informal hearing; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Be represented by legal counsel, advocate or other designated
   representative at their own expense, provided that if the family has not
   notified DCHA in writing at least three business days in advance of their
   intention to be represented, the hearing officer shall grant any request from
   DCHA for a continuance.

   8904.2. In addition to other rights contained in this Chapter, DCHA has a
   right to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Present evidence and any information pertinent to the issue of the
   informal hearing;
   
   
   
   (b)	Have its attorney present; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Have staff persons and other witnesses familiar with the case present
   documents and provide testimony.

   8904.3. The informal hearing may be conducted by any person designated by the
   DCHA, other than a person who made or approved the decision under review, a
   subordinate of that person or a person who is an employee in the Housing
   Choice Voucher Program. The designated hearing officer shall regulate the
   conduct of the informal hearing in accordance with these regulations.

   8904.4. The informal hearing shall be conducted as follows:
   
   
   
   (a)	The informal hearing shall concern only the issues for which the
   participant or applicant has received a notice in conformance with Subsection
   8901.3.
   
   
   
   (b)	DCHA and the participant or applicant shall be given the opportunity to
   present evidence and question any witnesses;
   
   
   
   (c)	Evidence presented at the informal hearing may be considered without
   regard to admissibility under the rules of evidence applicable to judicial
   proceedings;
   
   
   
   (d)	Documents may not be presented or relied upon which have not been provided
   to the other party timely, except, in the case of an applicant or participant
   proceeding pro se without a representative where the hearing officer has
   determined that admission of such a document will not prejudice DCHA and a
   continuance is not practical;
   
   
   
   (e)	The hearing officer may request the submission of additional
   documentation, verification or briefs or letters of explanation from the
   parties or their representatives, provided such request is responded to within
   five (5) business days;
   
   
   
   (f)	The hearing officer shall have the power to grant appropriate relief not
   in conflict with controlling law and regulations, including remanding to a
   program specialist for further review or recalculation, granting a voucher or
   voucher extension , participant recertification, adjustment to total tenant
   payment, reversal of termination, scheduling continuances and rescheduling.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 7193, 7197-7200 (July
   26, 2002); as amended by Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published
   at 52 DCR 6858 (July 22, 2005)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final
   Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 10181, 10182 (November 18, 2005).
