                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEFINITIONS (ยง 20-2699)

2699.1. When used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
   ascribed:
   
   
   
   Act &#8211; the Fire-Standard-Compliant Cigarettes Act of 2008, effective May
   13, 2008 (D.C. Law 17-157; D.C. Official Code ยง 7-1751 et seq.).
   
   
   
   Chief &#8211; the Chief of the Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department.
   
   
   
   Cigarette &#8211; a product that contains any amount of nicotine, regardless
   of size, shape, or presence of other ingredients, that is intended to be
   burned or heated and consists of or contains any roll of tobacco wrapped in
   paper, or in any other substance other than tobacco, and because of its
   appearance, the type of tobacco used, and its packing or labeling is offered
   to or purchased by consumers for smoking.
   
   
   
   Consumer testing &#8211; an assessment of cigarettes that a manufacture
   conducts or is under the control and direction of a manufacturer for the
   purpose of evaluating consumer acceptance of the cigarette, utilizing only the
   quantity of cigarettes that is reasonably necessary for the assessment, and in
   a controlled setting where the cigarettes are either consumed on-site or
   returned to the testing administrators at the conclusion of the testing.
   
   
   
   Fire-standard-compliant-cigarette &#8211; a cigarette that has been tested
   pursuant to, and has met the performance standards of, the Act and its
   implementing rules.
   
   
   
   Manufacturer &#8211; a person or entity that manufactures or produces
   cigarettes or causes cigarettes to be manufactured or produced, whether in or
   outside the District, for sale in the District, directly or through an
   importer, wholesale dealer, or retailer dealer, including any first purchaser
   that intends to resell cigarettes.
   
   
   
   Quality control and quality assurance program &#8211; Laboratory procedures
   implemented to ensure that operator bias, systematic and nonsystematic
   methodological errors, and equipment-related problems do not affect the
   results of the testing and that maintain a repeatability value of no greater
   than nineteen hundredths (0.19).
   
   
   
   Repeatability &#8211; a range of values within which the repeat results of
   cigarette test trials from a single laboratory will fall 95% of the time.
   
   
   
   Retail dealer &#8211; a person, other than a manufacturer or wholesale dealer,
   engaged in the sale of cigarettes.
   
   
   
   Sale or selling &#8211; a transfer of title or possession, or both, exchange
   or barter, conditional or otherwise, including the giving of cigarettes as
   samples, prizes, or gifts and the exchange of cigarettes for any
   consideration.
   
   
   
   Wholesale dealer &#8211; a person, including a wholesale dealer&#8217;s agent
   that sells cigarettes to retail dealers or other persons for resale, including
   any person that owns, operates, or maintains a cigarette vending machine in
   the District of Columbia.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 10012 (September 26, 2008).
