                                  DC REGULATIONS

LICENSURE AS A FUNERAL DIRECTOR BY EXAMINATION (§ 17-3002)

3002.1. An applicant for a license under this section shall furnish proof to
   the Board that the applicant meets the following requirements:
   
   
   
   (a)	Is a graduate of a high school, by arranging for a certified transcript to
   be sent directly to the Director from the applicant&#8217;s high school;
   
   
   
   (b)	Is a graduate of an accredited school or college of mortuary science whose
   course of instruction is not less than twelve (12) months in duration or is
   composed of not less than eight hundred and forty (840) hours of study, or has
   successfully completed a two (2) year course of study leading to an associate
   degree in mortuary science, by arranging for a complete, certified transcript
   to be sent directly to the Director from the applicant&#8217;s school or
   college of mortuary science; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Has had the following practical experience:
   
   
   
   (1)	If a graduate of a school or college of mortuary science, at least two (2)
   years of practical experience as an apprentice funeral director; or
   
   
   
   (2)	If possessing an associate degree in mortuary science, experience of
   having actually performed the following at a satisfactory level:
   
   
   
   (A)	Embalmed at least twenty-five (25) human remains; and
   
   
   
   (B)	Conducted or directed at least twenty-five (25) funerals; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Has achieved a passing grade on all three (3) parts of the examination
   specified in §3002.4.

   3002.2. An applicant for a license who meets the requirements of
   §3002.1(c)(2) shall submit with the appplication a signed statement from each
   funeral director under whose immediate supervision the apprentice funeral
   director&#8217;s duties were performed which shall contain the following
   information:
   
   
   
   (a)	The number of human remains embalmed by the applicant;
   
   
   
   (b)	The number of funerals conducted or directed during the period of
   apprenticeship served under the supervision of the funeral director;
   
   
   
   (c)	A professional evaluation of the applicant&#8217;s performance.

   3002.3. The practical experience required by §3002.1(c) shall include
   full-time supervised training in all aspects of the business and practice of
   funeral directing, including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The care, disposal, and preservation, by embalming or otherwise, of human
   remains;
   
   
   
   (b)	The sale of funeral goods and services; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Business management.

   3002.4. The examination required by §3002.1(d) shall consist of the following
   three (3) parts:
   
   
   
   (a)	The national examination approved by the Conference of Funeral Service
   Examining Boards;
   
   
   
   (b)	An oral examination developed by the Board; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A practical demonstration developed by the Board.

   3002.5. An applicant shall demonstrate receipt of a passing score (as
   determined by the Conference of Funeral Service Examining Boards) on the
   national examination part of the examination by arranging with the National
   Testing Service to forward a copy of the applicant&#8217;s results directly to
   the Director.

   3002.6. The oral examination part of the examination shall include specific
   questions on District and federal laws and regulations concerning the practice
   of funeral directing, including, but not limited to, the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Anatomical Board, human tissue banks, and anatomical gifts;
   
   
   
   (b)	Vital statistics and containers for cremated human remains;
   
   
   
   (c)	Trafficking in dead bodies;
   
   
   
   (d)	Cemeteries and crematories;
   
   
   
   (e)	Licensing of funeral directors, apprentice funeral directors, and funeral
   services establishments; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Penalty provisions.

   3002.7. The practical demonstration part of the examination may include
   specific oral questions on manual procedures, anatomical considerations and
   pathological conditions which are relevant to the proper care, preparation and
   preservation of human remains.

   3002.8. The Board shall conduct the oral examination and practical
   demonstration parts of the examination at least two (2) times a year at a
   date, time, and location determined by the Board.

   3002.9. An applicant who fails to pass a part of the examination, in order to
   be eligible for a license, shall file a new application with the Director and
   pay the required fee. An applicant shall not submit a new application within
   six (6) months of the date of the examination part failed.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 2904 (April 22, 1988).
