                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPORTIONMENT (ยง 9-3704)

3704.1. The values used in determining the tax shall be used for purposes of
   making the apportionment required by ยง 15 of the Act.

   3704.2. Any exemption or reduction allowed by reason of the relationship of
   any person to the decedent or by reason of the purposes of the gift shall
   inure to the benefit of the person bearing that relationship or receiving the
   gift.

   3704.3. The following credits shall inure to the proportionate benefit of all
   persons liable to apportionment:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any unified credit;
   
   
   
   (b)	Any credit for property previously taxed;
   
   
   
   (c)	Any credit for state death taxes; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any credit for gift taxes or death taxes of a foreign country.

   3704.4. To the extent that a gift or bequest does not qualify for a full
   marital or charitable deduction for purposes of the federal estate tax solely
   by reason of an inheritance or estate tax or other death tax imposed upon and
   deductible from the gifted or bequeathed property, the property shall not be
   included in the computation provided for the D.C. Code ยง 47-3714, and to that
   extent no apportionment shall be made against the property. This exception
   shall not apply in any instance where the result will be to deprive the estate
   of a deduction otherwise allowable under ยง 2053(d) of the Internal Revenue
   Code of 1986, relating to the deduction for state death taxes on transfers for
   public, charitable or religious uses.

   3704.5. In all cases in which any property required to be included in the
   gross estate does not come into the possession of the fiduciary or other
   person required to pay the District estate tax or the federal estate tax, he
   or she shall be entitled, and it shall be his or her duty, to recover from
   whomsoever is in possession, or from the persons interested in the estate, the
   proportionate amount of the taxes owed under the provisions of the Act.

   3704.6. If the fiduciary or other person required to pay the tax cannot
   collect from any person interested in the estate the amount of the tax
   apportioned to the person, the amount not recoverable shall be equitably
   apportioned among the persons interested in the estate who are subject to
   apportionment.

   3704.7. If the fiduciary or other person required to pay the tax transfers any
   property included in the estate to another person, other than a bona fide
   purchaser for value, the transferee shall be jointly and severally liable with
   the transferor for the amount of tax apportioned to the transferor under this
   section, less the value at the time of the transfer of any consideration
   furnished by the transferee for the property.

   3704.8. None of the provisions of the Act shall in any way impair the right or
   power of any person by will or by written instrument executed inter vivos to
   make direction for the payment of taxes and to designate the fund or funds or
   property out of which the payment shall be made; and in every such case the
   provisions of the will or of such written instrument executed inter vivos
   shall be given effect to the same extent as if the Act had not been enacted.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 2353, 2358 (April 1, 1988).
