                                  DC REGULATIONS

PATENT RIGHTS PROCEDURES (ยง 27-3107)

3107.1. The contracting officer may include clauses, in a contract, approved
   by the Director, which require the contractor to do any or all of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Provide periodic reports (but not more frequently than annually) listing
   all inventions required to be disclosed during the period covered by each
   report;
   
   
   
   (b)	Provide a report prior to the closeout of the contract listing all
   inventions or stating that there were none;
   
   
   
   (c)	Provide, upon request, the patent application filing date, serial number
   and title, a copy of the patent application, and patent number and issue date
   for any subject invention in any country in which the contractor has applied
   for patents; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Furnish the District an irrevocable power to inspect and make copies of
   the patent application file.

   3107.2. The contractor shall submit to the contracting officer a document
   confirming all rights to which the District is entitled, and shall furnish to
   the contracting officer an irrevocable power to inspect and make copies of the
   patent application file six (6) months after filing each patent application or
   within six (6) months after submitting the invention disclosure if the
   application has been previously filed.

   3107.3. If the contracting officer determines in writing that it is in the
   best interests of the District, the contracting officer may modify, waive, or
   omit any of the rights set forth in ยง3106.2. The modification, waiver, or
   omission shall be in writing and shall be accompanied by a written statement
   of facts justifying the determination. The statement of facts shall include
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the extent to which the District&#8217;s rights are to be
   modified, waived, or omitted:
   
   
   
   (b)	The facts and justification for the modification, waiver, or omission; and
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement explaining how the interests of the District will be better
   served by the modification, waiver, or omission.

   3107.4. The contractor shall establish and maintain effective procedures to
   ensure that its patent rights obligations are met, that subject inventions are
   timely identified and disclosed, and that patent applications are filed when
   required.

   3107.5. Contractors shall submit all reports required by the contracting
   officer in accordance with the contract.

   3107.6. The contracting officer shall establish follow-up procedures to
   protect the District&#8217;s interests and to ensure that subject inventions
   are identified and disclosed; that, when required, patent applications are
   filed; and that the District&#8217;s rights are established and protected.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1619 (February 26, 1988).
