                                  DC REGULATIONS

PATENT RIGHTS UNDER DISTRICT CONTRACTS (ยง 27-3106)

3106.1. The Director shall prescribe standard contract provisions governing
   patent rights under District contracts for inclusion in solicitations and
   contracts, in accordance with the provisions of this section.

   3106.2. If the contract permits the contractor to retain title, and the
   contractor elects to retain title to an invention, the District shall have at
   least a nonexclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to use or
   have used, for or on behalf of the District, any invention made in the
   performance of work under a District contract. The District may have
   additional rights to sublicense the invention if provided in the contract.

   3106.3. The District shall have the right to receive title to any invention
   made in the performance of a contract unless the contract provides otherwise.
   If the contract extends a limited right to the contractor to acquire patent
   rights, the District shall have the right nevertheless to receive title to an
   invention in the following circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	If the contractor does not disclose the invention within the time
   specified in the contract;
   
   
   
   (b)	In any instance where the contractor does not elect to retain rights or
   fails to elect to retain rights to the invention within the time specified in
   the contract;
   
   
   
   (c)	In any instance where the contractor has not filed a patent application
   within the time specified in the contract;
   
   
   
   (d)	In any instance where the contractor decides not to continue prosecution
   of a patent application, pay maintenance fees, or defend in a re-examination
   or opposition proceeding on the patent; and
   
   
   
   (e)	In any instance where the contractor no longer desires to retain title.

   3106.4. If the contract gives a limited right to the contractor to acquire
   patent rights, the contractor may request greater rights to an invention
   within the period specified in the contract. The contracting officer may grant
   a request for greater rights if the contracting officer determines that the
   grant of greater rights is in the best interests of the District. In making
   the determination, the contracting officer shall consider the following
   objectives:
   
   
   
   (a)	Ensuring that inventions are used in a manner that will promote full and
   open competition and free enterprise; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Ensuring that the District obtains sufficient rights in District-supported
   inventions to meet the needs of the District and protect the public against
   nonuse or unreasonable use of inventions.

   3106.5. If the contract permits the contractor to retain title to an invention
   and the contractor elects not to retain title, the District may, after
   consultation with the contractor, grant a request for retention of rights by
   the inventor.

   3106.6. If a District employee is a co-inventor of an invention made under a
   contract and the District acquires all or part of the rights to the invention,
   the Director may take any of the following actions that are consistent with
   the best interests of the District:
   
   
   
   (a)	Assign all or part of the District&#8217;s rights to its employee while
   retaining for the District any rights set forth in ยง3106.2;
   
   
   
   (b)	Assign all or part of the District&#8217;s rights to the contractor for
   reasonable consideration, after negotiation by the contracting officer of a
   reasonable consideration;
   
   
   
   (c)	If the contractor is a nonprofit organization or is a certified minority
   business, assign all or part of the District&#8217;s rights without
   consideration; or
   
   
   
   (d)	Retain the District&#8217;s rights.

   3106.7. For purposes of this section, an invention is made in the performance
   of work under a District contract if it is conceived or first actually reduced
   to practice in the performance of work under a District contract.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1617 (February 26, 1988).
