                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROPRIETARY OR CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION IN BIDS AND PROPOSALS (§ 27-3111)

3111.1. In accordance with §317(d) of the Procurement Practices Act of 1985
   (&#8220;the Act&#8221;), D.C. Code §1-1183.17(d) (1981), a bidder or offeror
   shall designate information contained in a response to the invitation for bids
   or request for proposals as proprietary or confidential by specifically
   identifying that information in writing in the bid or proposal.

   3111.2. A bidder or offeror including proprietary or confidential information
   in its bid or offer shall conspicuously display the following information on
   the first page of the bid or offer if the bidder or offeror does not want the
   proprietary or confidential information disclosed to the public for any
   purpose or used by the District except for evaluation purposes:
   
   
   
   (a)	That the bid or offer includes proprietary or confidential information
   that shall not be disclosed outside the District government and shall not be
   duplicated, used, or disclosed, in whole or in part, for any purpose other
   than to evaluate the bid or proposal;
   
   
   
   (b)	That if a contract is awarded to the bidder or offeror, the District shall
   have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the proprietary or confidential
   information to the extent provided in the contract;
   
   
   
   (c)	That this restriction does not limit the District&#8217;s right to use the
   proprietary or confidential information if it is obtained from another source
   without restriction; and
   
   
   
   (d)	That the bidder or offeror has specifically identified, by page number or
   otherwise, the proprietary or confidential information subject to the
   restriction.

   3111.3. In addition to the requirements of §3111.2, the bidder or offeror
   shall conspicuously mark each separate sheet containing proprietary or
   confidential information with a notation to the effect that use or disclosure
   of proprietary or confidential information contained on the sheet is subject
   to the restriction set forth on the first page of the bid or offer.

   3111.4. The bidder or offeror shall not designate as confidential or
   proprietary the name of the bidder or offeror, the bid or proposal price, or
   any information that is not actually proprietary or confidential.

   3111.5. If, after inspection of a bid or proposal, the contracting officer or
   other District official determines that all or any part of the information
   designated as confidential or proprietary may be subject to disclosure under
   the D.C. Freedom of Information Act, D.C. Code §1-1521 et seq. (1981), the
   contracting officer shall notify the bidder or offeror of that determination
   and allow the contractor ten (10) days to respond.

   3111.6. If the contracting officer does not agree that evidence presented by
   the bidder or offeror supports the confidential or proprietary designation of
   the information identified by the contracting officer, the contracting officer
   shall do one (1) of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Declare the bid non-responsive or the proposal unacceptable and eliminate
   the bid or proposal from consideration; or
   
   
   
   (b)	If the contracting officer determines that it would be in the best
   interests of the District to consider the bid or proposal, the contracting
   officer may remove the confidential or proprietary designation and consider
   the bid or proposal.

   3111.7. The bidder or offeror shall be notified in writing of the contracting
   officer&#8217;s decision under §3111.6. If the bid or proposal will be
   considered, the notice to the contractor shall include a warning that the
   bidder&#8217;s or offeror&#8217;s designation has been removed, and the
   information may be subject to disclosure under the D.C. Freedom of Information
   Act.

   3111.8. If the bid or proposal is eliminated under §3111.6(a), the designated
   information shall not be disclosed. If the bid is modified by the contracting
   officer to remove any designation of information as confidential or
   proprietary under §3111.6(b), the bidder or offeror may appeal the
   contracting officer&#8217;s determination to the Director after award. The
   Director shall consider the evidence submitted by the bidder or offeror and
   the findings and determination of the contracting officer, and shall render a
   decision upholding or overruling the contracting officer&#8217;s
   determination, in whole or in part. The Director may conduct an informal
   hearing or obtain a review and recommendation by the Procurement Review
   Committee before making a final decision.

   3111.9. Each solicitation shall contain a provision, approved by the Director,
   which indicates the right of the contractor to designate confidential or
   proprietary information in response to the solicitation, as well as the right
   of the contracting officer to challenge the designation and either eliminate
   the bid or proposal or remove the designation under §3111.6.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 35 DCR 1621 (February 26, 1988).
