                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROTECTIONS FOR APPLICANTS AND PARTICIPANTS UNDER THE VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT
(§ 14-4907)

4907.1. in certain circumstances, as further explained below, applicants or
   participants may be afforded additional protections from HCVP requirements and
   policies under the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA).  DCHA shall comply with
   the terms of VAWA in administration of the HCVP.

   4907.2. If a Family composition changes due to a member of the assisted Family
   engaging in criminal acts of physical violence against one or more other
   Family members or other people and the victim is part of the assisted Family,
   the perpetrator may not be considered a remaining Family member or an eligible
   Family member.

   4907.3. In making its decision as to who retains assistance, DCHA shall
   consider all credible evidence, including, but not limited to, a signed
   certification, HUD Form-50066, or other documentation of abuse submitted to
   DCHA by the victim in accordance with VAWA.

   4907.4. Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.2005(c) the denial of continued HCVP
   assistance to a Family member who engages in criminal acts of violence against
   Family members or others shall be considered a form of termination of the
   individual Family member.  Should DCHA choose to exercise this authority, it
   shall follow the same procedures as described in chapters 58 and 89 of this
   title of the DCMR when terminating assistance to such an individual as it
   would when terminating the assistance of an entire Family.

   4907.5. Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.2005, criminal activity directly related to
   intrafamily violence, dating violence, or stalking, engaged in by a member of
   a tenant&#8217;s household or any guest or other person under the
   tenant&#8217;s control, shall not be cause for termination of tenancy,
   occupancy rights of, or assistance to the victim, if the tenant or immediate
   family member of the tenant is the victim.

   4907.6. Notwithstanding § 4907.5, an owner may still evict a tenant for a
   lease violation unrelated to domestic violence, provided that the owner does
   not subject such a tenant to a more demanding standard than other tenants in
   making the determination whether to evict or terminate the tenancy.

   4907.7. A victim of domestic violence, sexual violence, dating violence, or
   stalking who is absent for more than one hundred twenty (120) days may still
   be considered a Family member based on documentation that the victim is
   expected to return to the Family in a reasonable time if the victim provides
   DCHA documentation from a social worker, police officer, shelter, or other
   qualified agency regarding the incident or incidences of domestic violence and
   current housing arrangements for the applicant Family.

   4907.8. If a Family or Family member participant who has been a victim of
   domestic violence, dating violence, or stalking by an individual, the
   participant may port to another PHA jurisdiction in violation of the lease as
   explained in chapter 55 of this title of the DCMR so long as the Family has
   complied with all other obligations.

   4907.9. If a Family or Family member participant who has been the victim of
   domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, sexual assault, or an
   intrafamily offense moves in violation of the lease, DCHA shall not terminate
   assistance if the move was related to the act.

   4907.10. A Family may document an incident or incidences of domestic violence,
   dating violence, or stalking as follows:
   
   
   
   (a) 	The HUD-approved certification HUD Form-50066;
   
   (b)	Federal, state, tribal, territorial, or local police record;
   
   (c)	Documentation signed by an employee, agent, or volunteer of a victim
   service provider oran attorney or medical provider from whom the victim has
   sought assistance in the situation; or
   
   (d)	Other acceptable documentation in order to verify the Family’s claim of
   domestic violence, sexual violence, dating violence, or stalking.

   4907.11. DCHA shall keep such information confidential in accordance with VAWA
   and its implementing regulations.

   4907.12. If DCHA receives conflicting certification documents of domestic
   violence from two or more members of a household, each claiming to be a victim
   and naming one or more of the other petitioning household members as the
   perpetrator, DCHA may determine which Family member is the true victim by
   requiring third-party documentation in accordance with VAWA and its
   implementing regulations.
   
   
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7856, 7862 (June 29, 2012).
