                                  DC REGULATIONS

DECISIONS OF HEARING OFFICERS (§ 18-1041)

1041.1. The examiner may announce his or her decision orally at the close of
   the hearing or he or she may decide not to announce it until rendering his
   decision in writing at a later date.

   1041.2. Regardless of whether or not the decision is announced orally, a copy
   of the decision shall be given to each party or to his or her attorney of
   record.

   1041.3. The decision shall include a statement of findings of fact and
   conclusions of law.

   1041.4. The findings shall incorporate basic facts upon which conclusions are
   based. Mere conclusory assertions or summaries of evidence shall not be
   sufficient for use as a basis for findings of fact within the meaning of this
   section.

   1041.5. No decision shall be made by an examiner except upon consideration of
   the entire record of the proceeding, or upon such portion of the record of the
   proceeding as may be agreed upon by all the parties to the proceeding, and no
   evidence, information, or other knowledge (other than official notice of a
   material fact not appearing in the evidence in the record but taken cognizance
   of in accordance with § 1036) brought to the attention of the examiner shall
   be considered.

   1041.6. In any proceeding in which evidence is taken, the record shall
   include, wherever applicable, all of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Pleadings, motions, and rulings thereon, including objections or
   exceptions and the reasons for making such rulings;
   
   
   
   (b)	All evidence received of whatever kind, including records and documents in
   the possession of the Department of which the examiner made use or took
   official cognizance;
   
   
   
   (c)	A statement of matters officially noticed, and any contest thereof by any
   party including any rulings thereon by the examiner;
   
   
   
   (d)	Offers of proof, objections thereto, and the rulings by the examiner
   thereon and. any statements made by a party as to what excluded evidence would
   have shown;
   
   
   
   (e)	Arguments of the parties or of counsel;
   
   
   
   (f)	The examiner’s findings of fact and conclusions of law; and
   
   
   
   (g)	All staff memoranda, reports, or other data submitted to the examiner,
   referred to by him or her, or requested by him from other Departmental
   personnel.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 7316 (August 10, 2001).
