                                  DC REGULATIONS

DECLARATORY ORDERS (ยง 18-1003)

1003.1. Any person in interest may petition the Director for a declaratory
   order with respect to the applicability of any rule, order, or statute
   enforced or administered by the Director, to remove any uncertainty or
   ambiguity in the application of the rule, order, or statute, or to terminate a
   controversy in any case in which a hearing is not required by law for its
   disposition.

   1003.2. Two (2) or more persons similarly situated may join in a single
   petition and additional parties may intervene by petition.

   1003.3. Upon receipt of a petition, the Director may refer the petition to the
   Chief Examiner with a request for a written report on the advisability of any
   action to be taken.

   1003.4. The Chief Examiner shall submit his or her report as soon thereafter
   as possible with recommendations and a proposed order, if recommended.

   1003.5. If the Director determines that the petition discloses sufficient
   reasons in support of the prayers therein to justify a declaratory order, the
   Director shall submit the proposed declaratory order, or a modification of the
   declaratory order, accompanied by the findings of fact upon which the
   recommended order is based, to the Corporation Counsel for approval.

   1003.6. If the Director finds that the petition involves a hypothetical or
   moot question; or that petitioner has no interest within the meaning of the
   Administrative Procedure Act in that the legal rights, duties, or privileges
   of such petitioner will not be substantially affected by the granting or
   denial of the order prayed for; or that petitioner does not intend to pursue a
   stated course of action in the event of a favorable order by the Director; or
   on other grounds deemed sufficient by the Director, such petition will be
   dismissed with notice to petitioner stating the grounds for the dismissal.

   1003.7. The Director may order a hearing to be held prior to or after
   submission of the report by the Chief Examiner described in ยง 1003.4.

   1003.8. If recommended in a case pending before the Corporation Counsel, a
   hearing shall be held to determine any material facts not in the record but
   deemed necessary by the Corporation Counsel for a decision.

   1003.9. Hearings shall be held in the manner prescribed in this chapter
   insofar as such procedures are applicable.

   1003.10. The Examiner to whom the proceeding has been assigned shall report
   findings of fact and, where applicable, conclusions of law in his or her
   report.

   1003.11. The Director shall file with the Mayor any declaratory order approved
   by the Corporation Counsel, and a copy of the order shall be delivered to any
   petitioner whose name appears in the record.
