                                  DC REGULATIONS

HEARING EXAMINERS (ยง 18-1007)

1007.1. Upon the filing of a demand for hearing, an examiner shall be assigned
   to the case. Thereafter, all motions and procedural requests shall be
   addressed to the examiner assigned to the case.

   1007.2. The Director and examiners shall have the following powers, in
   addition to any other powers specified in this chapter:
   
   
   
   (a)	To give notice concerning reviews and hearings;
   
   
   
   (b)	To administer oaths and affirmations;
   
   
   
   (c)	To examine witnesses and to take testimony;
   
   
   
   (d)	To issue subpoenas, to take depositions, or cause depositions or
   interrogatories to be taken;
   
   
   
   (e)	To rule upon offers of proof and to receive relevant evidence;
   
   
   
   (f)	To regulate the course and conduct of hearings and reviews;
   
   
   
   (g)	To hold conferences, before or during a hearing, for the settlement or
   simplification of issues;
   
   
   
   (h)	To rule on motions and to dispose of procedural requests or similar
   matters;
   
   
   
   (i)	To make initial or final decisions as provided herein or by law; and
   
   
   
   (j)	To take any other action authorized by this chapter, the Administrative
   Procedure Act, or by any other applicable statute, rule, or regulation.

   1007.3. The authority of the examiner in each case shall terminate upon the
   occurrence of any of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Expiration of the period within which requests for administrative or
   judicial review may be filled;
   
   
   
   (b)	When the examiner withdraws from the case upon considering himself or
   herself disqualified, or for any other reason;
   
   
   
   (c)	Reassignment of the proceedings by the chief examiner to another examiner;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	Service of a final decision, or of an initial decision, whichever is
   applicable.

   1007.4. No examiner shall conduct a hearing in a proceeding in which he or she
   is prejudiced or partial with respect to any party, or where that examiner has
   any interest in the matter pending for decision before him or her.

   1007.5. In cases to be determined upon an evidentiary record after notice and
   hearing, a party desiring that an examiner disqualify himself or herself from
   participating in the proceeding shall file a motion as provided in ยง 1018.

   1007.6. The Examiner to whom a case is assigned shall give the parties
   reasonable notice including the date and place of a hearing and the nature of
   the hearing.

   1007.7. In no case shall notice be given less than ten (10) days prior to the
   hearing unless by consent of all parties to the hearing.

   1007.8. In the case of a hearing for the administrative adjudication of a
   traffic infraction, the date and place of the hearing may be specified in the
   notice of infraction.
