                                  DC REGULATIONS

ADOPTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE RULES AND REGULATIONS (ยง 18-1002)

1002.1. Whenever the Director proposes to adopt, amend, or repeal a rule or
   regulation, the adoption and promulgation of which has been delegated to the
   Director, any interested party or parties may submit data or views on the
   action proposed in the form of a written petition.

   1002.2. Any interested party or parties may petition in writing to the
   Director for the adoption, repeal, or amendment of any rule, the authority for
   which has been delegated to the Director.

   1002.3. Upon receipt, the Director may refer a petition to the Chief Examiner
   with a request for a written report on the advisability of any action to be
   taken upon the petition.

   1002.4. The Chief Examiner shall submit his or her report as soon thereafter
   as is possible with recommendations.

   1002.5. If the Director determines that the petition discloses sufficient
   reasons in support of the prayers therein to justify the institution of public
   rulemaking, an appropriate notice will be issued to all petitioners that a
   public hearing will be held on the matter.

   1002.6. If the Director determines that the petition does not show sufficient
   grounds to justify rulemaking procedures, petitioner will be so notified
   together with the grounds for denial.

   1002.7. The Director may order a hearing to be held prior to the adoption,
   amendment or repeal of a rule in the manner prescribed in this chapter,
   insofar as said procedures are applicable.

   1002.8. The Examiner to whom the proceeding has been assigned shall submit to
   the Director a summary of the arguments of both sides and an initial decision
   which shall contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions based
   thereon as well as the reasons thereof, and a proposed draft of any
   recommended rule or amendment.

   1002.9. The Director shall file any rule, amendment, or repeal thereof
   approved by him or her with the Office of Documents and Administrative
   Issuances.

   1002.10. If any rule is adopted pursuant to proceedings initiated by petition
   of any interested party, a copy of the rule shall be delivered to the party.
