                                  DC REGULATIONS

HEARINGS AND OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW (§ 18-1004)

1004.1. A person has a right to a hearing whenever he or she has been
   aggrieved or adversely affected by any act or refusal to act, or the issuance
   of any order or decision by the Department which is subject to review by any
   applicable statute, or which constitutes a “contested case” as this term
   is defined in the Administrative Procedure Act.

   1004.2. The right to a hearing shall not extend to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any act or decision that is based solely upon on the results of any test,
   examination or inspection given or made by the Department;
   
   
   
   (b)	The suspension or revocation of a driver’s license based upon point
   totals;
   
   
   
   (c)	The suspension of a reciprocity sticker registration certificate;
   
   
   
   (d)	The assessment of a fine for failure to maintain required motor vehicle
   insurance; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Any other instance where the decision to hold a hearing is left to the
   discretion of the Director or hearing examiner.

   1004.3. Hearings may be afforded persons not otherwise qualified under the
   provisions of § 1004.2 in the discretion of the Director, or as specifically
   provided in this chapter.

   1004.4. Any person entitled to a hearing may demand the hearing by written
   demand which shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.

   1004.5. Every party shall have the right to present his or her case or defense
   by oral or documentary evidence, to submit evidence in rebuttal and to conduct
   such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of
   the facts.

   1004.6. When two (2) or more hearings are to be held, and the same or
   substantially similar evidence is relevant and material to the matters in
   issue at each hearing, the examiner may fix the same time and place for each
   hearing and conduct the hearings jointly.

   1004.7. When joint hearings are held, a single record of the proceedings shall
   be made, the evidence introduced in one case may be considered as introduced
   in the others, and a separate or joint decision shall be made, as appropriate.
