                                  DC REGULATIONS

SERVICE OF DOCUMENTS (ยง 18-1013)

1013.1. Formal notices, final orders, and similar documents issued by the
   Hearing Division will be served by the Division on all parties to the
   proceedings.

   1013.2. Any document filed by any party with the Hearing Division or an
   Examiner shall be served upon all parties to the proceedings in which it is
   filed.

   1013.3. Service may be made by regular mail, by registered or certified mail,
   or by personal delivery.

   1013.4. Service upon a party may be upon an individual, or upon a partnership
   member, or upon the president or other officer of the corporation, company,
   firm, or association to be served, or upon the assignee or legal successor of
   any of the foregoing, or upon any attorney of record for the party, or upon
   the agent designated by a party to receive service of documents in a
   particular proceeding as provided by District of Columbia law other than the
   District of Columbia Administrative Procedure Act.

   1013.5. Service by regular or registered or certified mail shall be made at
   the address of the party designated under ยง 1012.4 to receive service of
   documents. If no such person is designated, service may be made at the usual
   residence or principal place of business of the party, or, if unknown, at the
   last address furnished by the party to the Department.

   1013.6. Proof of service shall accompany all documents when they are tendered
   for filing. Proof of service of any document shall consist of one of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A certificate of mailing executed by the person mailing the document; or
   
   
   
   (b)	An acknowledgement of service signed by a party receiving service
   personally or a certificate of the person making personal service.

   1013.7. Acknowledgement of service may be made by any person at the address
   shown on the document who is sixteen (16) years of age or over.

   1013.8. Whenever proof of service is made, the date of mailing shall be the
   date of service, except that a final order of revocation or suspension shall
   be considered served as provided specifically in other provisions of this
   title, or as provided in this section.
