                                  DC REGULATIONS

EVIDENCE[COLON] GENERAL PROVISIONS (ยง 18-1032)

1032.1. Evidence presented at a hearing shall be limited to material evidence
   relevant to the issues as drawn by the pleadings or other documents filed in
   the case, subject to later modifications of the issues which may be necessary
   to prevent injustice.

   1032.2. Irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence shall be
   excluded.

   1032.3. The rules of evidence applied in the hearing or review shall include
   exclusion of evidence whether hearsay or otherwise which does not contain
   facts of probative value or is not relevant to the issues to be decided.

   1032.4. No permit shall be suspended or revoked solely on the basis of hearsay
   evidence.

   1032.5. Objections to the admission or exclusion of evidence shall be in short
   form, stating the grounds of objections relied upon.

   1032.6. Exceptions to the rulings of the examiner made during the course of a
   hearing are unnecessary. For all purposes for which an exception otherwise
   would be taken, it is sufficient that a party, at the time the ruling of the
   examiner is made or sought do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Makes known the action he or she desires the examiner to take; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Makes known his or her objection to an action taken, and the grounds for
   his or her objection.

   1032.7. Any offer of proof made in connection with an objection taken to any
   ruling of the examiner rejecting or excluding proffered oral testimony shall
   consist of a statement of the substance of the evidence which a party or his
   or her counsel contends would be adduced by such testimony.

   1032.8. If the excluded evidence consists of evidence in documentary or
   written form or of references to documents or records, a copy of the evidence
   shall be marked for identification and shall constitute the offer of proof.

   1032.9. The examiner may exclude testimony under the rules of privilege
   recognized by decisions of the courts of the District of Columbia or as
   provided by law including, but not limited to, communications between attorney
   and client, physician and patient, and records and files of any official or
   agency of government which, by statute or otherwise, are recognized as
   confidential.

   1032.10. No greater exclusionary effect shall be given any such rule or
   privilege than would apply in any action in a court of the District of
   Columbia.

   1032.11. In a hearing on the suspension or revocation of a license,
   registration certificate, or reciprocity sticker pursuant to ยง 1006 or the
   No-Fault Insurance Act, the examiner may exclude all evidence that is not
   related to the following questions of facts:
   
   
   
   (a)	Whether a motor vehicle insurance policy has been issued to the person and
   had been in effect on the day the order of revocation or suspension was
   issued;
   
   
   
   (b)	Whether a person falsely certified to the Director that a motor vehicle
   insurance policy was in effect;
   
   
   
   (c)	Whether the person provided the Director with false or inaccurate
   information; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Whether any time had lapsed or occurred when the person did not possess a
   motor vehicle insurance policy while the person had a registration certificate
   or reciprocity sticker.
