                                  DC REGULATIONS

APPEARANCES (ยง 18-1025)

1025.1. Any party to a proceeding may appear and be heard in person or through
   an attorney.

   1025.2. No register of persons who may practice before the Department is
   maintained and no application for admission to practice is required.

   1025.3. Any attorney practicing before the Department may, upon hearing and
   good cause shown, be suspended or barred from so practicing.

   1025.4. Any party appearing in person in any proceeding governed by this
   chapter, whether in response to a subpoena or by request or permission of the
   Department, may be accompanied, represented, and advised by counsel and may be
   examined by his or her own counsel before and after other questioning.

   1025.5. An attorney appearing as counsel shall enter a written appearance on a
   form provided by the Department which shall contain the signature, address,
   telephone number, person he or she represents, and a certification that he or
   she has been admitted to and is authorized to practice before the District of
   Columbia Court of Appeals.

   1025.6. If an attorney is admitted only in another jurisdiction, the examiner
   may allow appearance by counsel upon satisfactory proof that such counsel is
   admitted to and is in good standing with the highest court of that
   jurisdiction at the time of the hearing.

   1025.7. A respondent may be assisted by a non-attorney at the discretion of
   the hearing examiner.

   1025.8. A non-attorney designated agent may appear in place of a respondent at
   the discretion of the hearing examiner.

   1025.9. A respondent shall submit a notarized affidavit, provided by the
   Director, that the respondent authorized the non-attorney designated agent to
   appear in his or her place. The sworn affidavit shall be valid for one (1)
   year or for a lesser period if stated on the affidavit.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 848 (February 10, 2006).
