                                  DC REGULATIONS

REHEARING OR RECONSIDERATION (ยง 18-1042)

1042.1. A decision in an individual proceeding involving the suspension or
   revocation of a license or privilege to drive shall be subject to rehearing or
   reconsideration by the examiner within ten (10) days from the date of its
   entry upon motion by a party or on motion of the examiner.

   1042.2. The grounds for rehearing or reconsideration shall be one or more of
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Newly discovered or newly available evidence relevant to the issues;
   
   
   
   (b)	Need for additional evidence to develop adequately the facts essential to
   proper decision;
   
   
   
   (c)	Probable error committed by the examiner in the proceeding or in its
   decision which would be grounds for reversal on judicial review of the
   decision;
   
   
   
   (d)	Need for further consideration of the issues and the evidence in the
   public interest; and
   
   
   
   (e)	A showing that issues not previously considered ought to be examined in
   order properly to dispose of the matter.

   1042.3. The order of the examiner granting rehearing or reconsideration or the
   motion of the party therefore, shall set forth the grounds which justify that
   action.

   1042.4. Nothing in this section shall prevent rehearing or reconsideration of
   a matter by any examiner in accordance with other statutory provisions
   applicable to the Department, or, at any time, on the ground of fraud
   practiced by the prevailing party or of procurement of the order by perjured
   testimony or fictitious testimony.

   1042.5. On rehearing or reconsideration, the matter may be heard by the
   examiner who heard the proceeding initially or it may be referred to another
   examiner should the circumstances justify such referral in the opinion of the
   Chief Examiner.

   1042.6. The hearing shall be confined to those grounds upon which the
   rehearing or reconsideration was ordered.

   1042.7. If an application for rehearing is timely filed, the period within
   which judicial review must be brought under the D.C. Administrative Procedure
   Act shall run from the final disposition of the application.

   1042.8. A motion for rehearing or reconsideration shall not operate as a stay
   of any order of suspension or revocation of a license or registration which
   has become final by decision of the examiner following the original hearing.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 7316 (August 10, 2001).
