                                  DC REGULATIONS

OBJECTIONS TO PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION (§ 18-1037)

1037.1. Any person who objects to public disclosure of any information
   contained in any paper filed in any proceeding, shall segregate, or request
   the segregation of, such information into a separate paper and shall file it,
   or request that it be filed, with the examiner separately in a sealed envelope
   bearing the caption of the enclosed paper and the notation “CLASSIFIED OR
   CONFIDENTIAL UNDER § 1037.”

   1037.2. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, copies of the
   filed paper need not be served upon any other party unless so ordered by the
   examiner.

   1037.3. Any person who objects to public disclosure of any information sought
   to be elicited from a witness or himself or herself on oral examination shall,
   before such information is disclosed, make his or her objection known. Upon
   such objection, and after all present have been sworn to secrecy, the witness
   shall be compelled to disclose such information only in the presence of the
   examiner and the attorneys for the parties.

   1037.4. The transcript of such information shall be segregated and filed in a
   sealed envelope in the manner prescribed in this section.

   1037.5. Copies of the segregated portion of the transcript need not be served
   upon any other party unless ordered by the examiner.

   1037.6. In case of objection to public disclosure of any information filed by
   or elicited from any government department or representative thereof, the
   department or representative making the objection shall be accorded the
   procedures described in this section.

   1037.7. No information covered by this section need be withheld from public
   disclosure unless written objection is filed with the examiner prior to the
   time of hearing; Provided, that such motion need not be filed in the case of
   objection made by a government department or representative.

   1037.8. The objection shall be in the form of a motion and signed by the
   objecting party, duly authorized officer or agent thereof, or by counsel
   representing that party.

   1037.9. The motion shall describe the information sought to be withheld and
   shall contain a statement of the reasons it is claimed that public disclosure
   would adversely affect the interests of the objecting party and is not
   required in the interest of the public.

   1037.10. Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this section, whenever the
   objection to disclosure of information shall have been made in the first
   instance at the time of hearing, the written motion required by this section
   shall not be necessary, but may be submitted if the parties so desire or if
   the examiner so directs.

   1037.11. The examiner shall rule on motions filed pursuant to this section
   specifying the extent to which, and the conditions upon which, the information
   may be disclosed to the parties, which order shall be effective upon the date
   stated therein or, if made at a hearing, immediately upon the ruling of the
   examiner.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 48 DCR 7316 (August 10, 2001).
