                                  DC REGULATIONS

PRE-HEARING CONFERENCE (ยง 18-1023)

1023.1. Prior to any hearing, the examiner to whom the proceeding has been
   assigned may give notice of a pre-hearing conference to all parties to the
   proceeding and to other persons who appear to have an interest in the
   proceeding.

   1023.2. The purpose of a pre-hearing conference is to define and simplify the
   issues and the scope of the proceeding; to secure statements of the positions
   of the parties with respect thereto and amendments to the pleadings in
   conformity therewith; to schedule the exchange of exhibits before the date set
   for hearing; and to arrive at agreements that will aid in the conduct and
   disposition of the proceeding.

   1023.3. Pre-hearing conference agreements may include, but are not limited to,
   the following matters:
   
   
   
   (a)	Matters the examiner can consider without necessity of proof;
   
   
   
   (b)	Admissions of fact and of the genuineness of documents;
   
   
   
   (c)	Requests for documents;
   
   
   
   (d)	Admissibility of evidence;
   
   
   
   (e)	Limitation of the number of witnesses;
   
   
   
   (f)	Reduction of oral testimony to written form;
   
   
   
   (g)	Procedures to be followed at the hearing; and
   
   
   
   (h)	Disposition of all pending motions.

   1023.4. The examiner may require further conference, or responsive pleadings,
   or both.

   1023.5. If a party refuses to produce documents requested by another party at
   the conference, the examiner may compel the production of the documents prior
   to hearing by subpoena issued in accordance with ยง 1020, as though at a
   hearing.

   1023.6. The examiner shall issue a report of pre-hearing conference, defining
   the issues, specifying a schedule for the exchange of exhibits and rebuttal
   exhibits, the date of hearing, and specifying a time for the filing of
   objections to the report.

   1023.7. The report shall be served upon all parties to the proceeding and any
   person who appeared at the conference.

   1023.8. Objections to the report may be filed by any interested person within
   the time specified in the report.

   1023.9. The examiner may revise his or her report in the light of the
   objections presented. Any revised report shall be served upon the same persons
   and parties as was the original report.

   1023.10. The report (or revised report) shall constitute the official account
   of the conference and shall control the subsequent course of the proceeding;
   Provided, that it may be reconsidered and modified at any time to protect the
   public interest or to prevent injustice.
