                                  DC REGULATIONS

DISMISSAL OF HEARINGS (ยง 18-1008)

1008.1. With the approval of the examiner at any time prior to the mailing of
   notice of the decision, a demand for a hearing may be withdrawn or dismissed
   upon motion of the party or parties filing the demand for the hearing.

   1008.2. A party may request a dismissal by filing a written notice with the
   examiner or orally stating the request at the hearing.

   1008.3. With the approval of the examiner, a demand for hearing may be
   dismissed upon its abandonment by the party or parties who filed it.

   1008.4. A party shall be deemed to have abandoned a demand for a hearing if
   neither the party nor his or her attorney appears at the time and place fixed
   for the hearing and, prior to the time for hearing, the party has not shown
   good cause why neither he or she nor his or her attorney can appear.

   1008.5. The examiner may, on his or her own motion, dismiss a hearing demand,
   either entirely or as to any stated issue, under any of the following
   circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	Where the doctrine of res judicata is applicable because of a final
   decision either by the Department or by judicial affirmance. Where the grounds
   asserted for a proposed revocation or suspension have been the subject of a
   trial and judgment by the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, and that
   judgment is in favor of the party demanding the hearing, the demand shall be
   dismissed, the proposal denied, and the license restored, without fee, unless
   there exists some other encumbrance on the license;
   
   
   
   (b)	Where the party demanding a hearing is not a proper party or does not
   otherwise have a right to a hearing. This would include, but is not limited
   to, cases in which an individual has been convicted of an offense following
   which revocation of the license is mandatory under an applicable statute, or
   those in which an individual has been convicted of an offense following which
   suspension of license or registration is mandatory under an applicable statute
   unless proof of financial responsibility for the future is furnished to the
   Department;
   
   
   
   (c)	Where the party has failed to file a timely hearing demand pursuant to the
   provisions of this chapter, and the time for filing the demand has not been
   extended under the provisions of this chapter;
   
   
   
   (d)	Where a party who filed the hearing demand dies and there is no
   information before the Examiner showing that an individual who is not a party
   may be prejudiced by the determination which is the subject of the demand for
   hearing; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Where the Examiner, in his or her opinion, finds that a petition filed in
   any proceeding does not raise a question of fact or the claim or prayer is
   frivolous.
