                                  DC REGULATIONS

PETITIONS AND SUMMONSES (ยง 16-1509)

1509.1. If the Director is unable, after a good faith effort to settle a case
   or cases, the Director shall initiate a proceeding before the Office of
   Adjudication by filing a petition. The petition and a summons, issued by the
   Office of Adjudication, shall be served upon each respondent in accordance
   with ยง1506 of this chapter.

   1509.2. A summons shall contain at least the following information and
   instructions:
   
   
   
   (a)	The name, address, and phone number of the Office of Adjudication, and the
   caption or name of the case and the docket number;
   
   
   
   (b)	An instruction requiring the respondent to answer the petition, including
   the address where the respondent should file his or her answer;
   
   
   
   (c)	Notice of respondent&#8217;s right to obtain counsel;
   
   
   
   (d)	Notice of the possibility of a default judgment in the event that the
   respondent fails to answer the petition or appear at the hearing;
   
   
   
   (e)	The statutory authority for the summons;
   
   
   
   (f)	The time, and place of the hearing; and
   
   
   
   (g)	The signature of the clerk of the Office of Adjudication and the official
   seal of the Office of Adjudication.

   1509.3. The Office of Adjudication shall notify all parties of a change in a
   scheduled hearing date by telephone or in writing.

   1509.4. The Office of Adjudication shall prepare a summons for each respondent
   named in the petition and shall return the original summonses to the
   petitioner for service of process.

   1509.5. The petition shall contain the following information:
   
   
   
   (a)	A short, concise statement of the legal and factual basis for jurisdiction
   of the Office of Adjudication over the subject matter of the case and over the
   parties;
   
   
   
   (b)	The names and addresses of all parties to the action;
   
   
   
   (c)	A short, concise statement of the facts and grounds on which relief is
   sought; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A prayer for relief.

   1509.6. The Director shall attach to the petition a list of all parties on
   whom answers, motions, and other papers are to be served, and a copy of the
   original complaint form(s) filed with DCRA.

   1509.7. The petition may contain multiple grounds or counts. These counts may
   be in the alternative and may be inconsistent with each other.

   1509.8. Fraud and mistake shall be pleaded with specific supporting facts.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 6176, 6180 (October 10, 1986).
