                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPETITIVE SEALED BIDDING (ยง 19-4315)

4315.1. The CCO has the discretion to determine which method of procurement to
   utilize in the purchase of supplies, services or construction.

   4315.2. Competitive sealed bidding shall be the Library&#8217;s preferred
   method of contracting when the following conditions exist:
   
   (a)	Award will be made solely on the basis of price and price-related factors
   and conformance to specifications;
   
   
   
   (b)It will not be necessary to conduct discussions with the bidders responding
   to the solicitation; and
   
   
   
   (c)There is reasonable expectation of receiving more than on sealed bid.

   4315.3. Each Invitation for Bid (IFB) shall be publicized in accordance with
   section 4302.

   4315.4. A pre-bid conference may be held after a solicitation has been issued,
   but before bids are submitted, to explain the solicitation. The conference
   shall be announced to all prospective bidders known to have received the
   solicitation.

   4315.5. Nothing stated or discussed at the pre-bid conference shall change the
   IFB unless the CCO issues a written amendment.

   4315.6. Each amendment shall identify the part of the IFB that was amended.

   4315.7. To be considered for award, a bid shall be required to comply with all
   the requirements of the solicitation.

   4315.8. The CCO shall evaluate bids without discussions with bidders when the
   competitive sealed bidding method of procurement is utilized.

   4315.9. The CCO shall prescribe the manner in which bids shall be submitted:
   
   
   
   (a)	Typewritten in hard copy and mailed via U.S. mail; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Typewritten in electronic copy.

   4315.10. Bids shall be submitted so they will be received in the office
   designated in the solicitation not later than the exact date and time set for
   receipt of bids.

   4315.11. Bids received at the place designated in the solicitation after the
   time and date set for receipt of bids shall be considered late.

   4315.12. Bids shall not be sent via registered or certified mail.

   4315.13. Bids sent in hard copy via U.S. mail or via any overnight mail
   carrier are mailed at the risk of the bidder. Bids sent in soft copy via an
   electronic process shall be determined timely based on the time bids are
   received by the Library&#8217;s electronic mail system.

   4315.14. A bidder may modify or withdraw its bid by submitting a written
   notice to the CCO. The notice must be received in the office designated in the
   solicitation before contract award.

   4315.15. Prior to bid opening, the CCO may cancel the IFB if the CCO
   determines that cancellation is in the best interest of the Library.

   4315.16. If a solicitation is canceled under section 4315.15, the CCO shall
   send a notice to all bidders who received the solicitation.

   4315.17. All bids, withdrawals and modifications shall be opened publicly in
   the presence of one or more persons at the time, date and place specified in
   the solicitation. The name of the bidder, price, and other relevant
   information shall be read aloud and recorded on a bid summary.

   4315.18. The CCO shall examine each bid for mistakes after the bid opening.

   4315.19. The CCO shall have the discretion to waive minor mistakes, minor
   informalities or minor irregularities in bids if waiver is in the best
   interest of the Library.

   4315.20. If the CCO has reason to believe that a mistake has been made, the
   CCO shall request the bidder to verify the bid and the suspected mistake.

   4315.21. If the bidder confirms a mistake has been made or if a bidder alleges
   a mistake, the matter shall be processed before award in accordance with the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	If the bidder submits a written notice of the alleged mistake within five
   business days of notification by the CCO or within five business days from
   when the bidder discovers a mistake;
   
   
   
   (b)	The authority to permit corrections of bids is limited to bids that, as
   submitted, are responsive to the solicitation and shall not be used to permit
   correction of bids to make them responsive;
   
   
   
   (c)	Correction of an apparent clerical mistake may be permitted before award;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	A bidder may be permitted to withdraw a low bid in either of the following
   circumstances:
   
   
   
   (1)	If a mistake is clearly evident on the face of the bid document but the
   intended bid is not similarly evident; or
   
   
   
   (2)	If the bidder submits evidence which clearly and convincingly demonstrate
   that a mistake was made.

   4315.22. When a bid is corrected or withdrawn, or when the CCO denies the
   correction or withdrawal, the CCO shall prepare a determination showing that
   the relief was granted or denied.

   4315.23. If a mistake in bid is not discovered until after award, the mistake
   may be corrected by contract modification if correcting the mistake would be
   favorable to the Library without changing the essential requirements of the
   specifications

   4315.24. In addition to the circumstances contemplated in this section, or as
   otherwise authorized by law, if a mistake in a bid is not discovered until
   after award, one (1) of the following determinations shall be made:
   
   
   
   (a)	To reform the contract to delete the items involved in the mistake or to
   reform the contract to increase the price if the contract price, as corrected,
   does not exceed that of the next lowest acceptable bid under the original bid;
   
   
   
   (b)	That no change shall be made in the contract as awarded: or
   
   
   
   (c)	To terminate the contract.

   4315.25. Determinations under this section shall be made only on the basis of
   clear and convincing evidence that a mistake was made by the contractor, and
   was so apparent as to have given the contracting officer notice of the
   probability of the mistake.

   4315.26. The CCO shall make a contract award by written or electronic notice
   to the responsive offeror whose bid, conforming to the IFB, will be most
   advantageous to the Library, considering only price or price-related factors
   specified in the IFB.

   4315.27. The CCO shall include in the contract file a record of each
   determination made in accordance with this section, the facts involved, and
   the action taken.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 493 (January 18, 2008).
