                                  DC REGULATIONS

DEBARMENT, SUSPENSION AND INELIGIBILITY PROCEDURES (§ 19-4376)

4376.1. Debarment and suspension shall be imposed on Library contractors only
   when it is in the best interest of the Library and not for punitive purposes
   and only for the causes set forth in this Section.
   
   
   
   4376.2  	The Chief Contracting Officer (CCO) shall perform the excluded
   parties listing search related to Federal, District and/or open-market
   vendor/contractors for all acquisitions of $25,000.00 or more.  Results from
   this search will be included in acquisition (purchase orders) and contract
   folders.  The CCO shall not utilize any listing declared ineligible under
   federal laws and regulations applicable to the District of Columbia in making
   contract award decisions.

   4376.3. The CCO shall develop and maintain a current, comprehensive list of
   all contractors that have been debarred, suspended or declared ineligible.

   4376.4. The CCO shall utilize the federal government consolidated list of
   debarred, suspended or otherwise ineligible contractors until the
   Library&#8217;s list is developed within 12 months from the date these rules
   are promulgated.

   4376.5. The consolidated list shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The names and addresses of all debarred, suspended, or ineligible
   contractors with cross references when more than one (1) name is involved in a
   single action;
   
   
   
   (b)	The cause for each action, along with statutory or regulatory authority;
   
   
   
   (c)	The scope of the action;
   
   
   
   (d)	In the case of ineligible contractors, the name of the federal agency or
   other authority responsible for the action, and the name and telephone number
   of the point of contact for the action; and
   
   
   
   (e)	The termination date of each listing.

   4376.6. The CCO shall not solicit offers from, award contracts to, or consent
   to subcontract with a debarred or suspended contractor.

   4376.7. A contractor designated as ineligible shall be excluded from receiving
   contracts and subcontracts under the conditions and for the period set forth
   in the applicable statute or regulation.

   4376.8. The CCO may continue contracts or subcontracts in existence at the
   time a contractor is debarred, suspended or determined ineligible, unless the
   CCO determines in writing that the existing contracts or subcontracts should
   be terminated to protect the best interests of the Library for any of the
   reasons set forth in these regulations.

   4376.9. The CCO shall not exercise an option to renew or otherwise extend a
   current contract with a debarred, suspended or otherwise ineligible
   contractor, unless the CCO approves the action in writing.

   4376.10. In any subcontract requiring Library consent, the CCO shall not
   consent to the award of a subcontract to any debarred, suspended or otherwise
   ineligible contractor unless the CCO approves the award, in writing, based on
   compelling reasons in the best interest of the Library.

   4376.11. The CCO may debar a contractor for any of the following reasons:
   
   
   
   (a)	Conviction of, or civil judgment for, commission of fraud or a criminal
   offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a
   public contract or subcontract;
   
   
   
   (b)	Conviction of, or civil judgment for, violation of any federal, state or
   District of Columbia statute relating to the submission of offers (bids,
   proposals or quotations);
   
   
   
   (c)	Conviction of, or civil judgment for, commission of embezzlement, theft,
   forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false
   statements, or receiving stolen property;
   
   
   
   (d)	Conviction of, or civil judgment for, commission of any other offense
   indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty that seriously and
   directly affects the present responsibility of the contractor or
   subcontractor;
   
   
   
   (e)	Violation of the terms of a Library contract or subcontract so serious as
   to justify debarment, such as willful failure to perform any Library contract;
   a history of failure to perform, or a record of unsatisfactory past
   performance on any Library, District or federal contract; or
   
   
   
   (f)	Any other cause of a serious or compelling nature that affects the present
   responsibility of the contractor or subcontractor.

   4376.12. Debarment shall include debarment of all divisions or other
   organizational elements of the contractor.

   4376.13. The CCO may extend the debarment decision to include any affiliates
   of the contractor by specifically naming the affiliate and giving the
   affiliate written notice of the proposed debarment and an opportunity to
   respond in accordance with the provisions of this section.

   4376.14. Debarment shall be for a period not to exceed three (3) years based
   on the seriousness of the cause(s) of debarment. The debarment period begins
   on the date the contractor receives the notice of proposed debarment.

   4376.15. If suspension precedes debarment, the suspension period shall be
   considered in determining the debarment period.

   4376.16. If the CCO decides to impose a debarment, the contractor and any
   applicable affiliates shall be given prompt notice of the debarment by written
   notice in a manner determined appropriate by the CCO. The notice shall include
   the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A reference to the notice of proposed debarment;
   
   
   
   (b)	The reasons for the proposed debarment;
   
   
   
   (c)	The effective date and length or period of the proposed debarment;
   
   
   
   (d)	A statement that the proposed debarment is effective throughout the
   Library&#8217;s contracting system; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Notice to the proposed debarred contractor that its rights to
   administrative review as provided in §§ 4376.17 through 4376.22 of this
   section.

   4376.17. Any contractor intending to appeal the CCO&#8217;s proposed debarment
   or suspension shall appeal to the Contracts Review Committee within 10
   calendar days of receipt of the CCO&#8217;s decision to debar or suspend the
   contractor.

   4376.18. The CCO shall submit a report outlining the proposed debarment or
   suspension action for the review of the Contracts Review Committee. The
   Contracts Review Committee may hold an informal hearing within ten (10)
   calendar days of receipt of the contractor&#8217;s appeal and request for a
   hearing, unless such time period is extended by the Committee.

   4376.19. The Contracts Review Committee shall issue a final decision within
   forty-five (45) calendar days after receiving the contractor&#8217;s appeal.
   The Contracts Review Committee may issue a decision without a hearing.

   4376.20. Each contractor intending to file an appeal of the Contracts Review
   Committee&#8217;s decision shall file an appeal with the District of Columbia
   Contract Appeals Board (CAB). In order for the CAB to consider the appeal, the
   contractor shall file the appeal within ten (10) calendar days after the
   contractor receives a written decision from the Contracts Review Committee.

   4376.21. The contractor shall exhaust all administrative review procedures
   provided in this section fully and properly before appealing to the CAB.

   4376.22. The CAB shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and decide appeals
   from written decisions of the Contract Review Committee.
   
   
   
   SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 493 (January 18, 2008); as
   amended by Final Rulemaking published at 60 DCR 13177 (September 20, 2013).
