                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION (ยง 19-4369)

4369.1. The CCO may delegate contract administration functions to the
   appropriate program office within the Library.

   4369.2. The CCO shall advise the contractor of all delegated contract
   administration functions by providing the identification and location of the
   person delegated contract administration responsibilities within each
   contract.

   4369.3. The CCO may delegate the following functions to a contract
   administration office within the Library:
   
   
   
   (a)	Determining the allowability, suspension or disapproval of costs;
   
   
   
   (b)	Approving or disapproving of contractor invoices;
   
   
   
   (c)	Reviewing and approving or disapproving the contractor&#8217;s requests
   for payments under progress payments or performance-based payment structures;
   
   
   
   (d)	Allowing or disapproving Library property administration;
   
   
   
   (e)	Monitoring contractor performance to ensure the submission of
   deliverables; and
   
   
   
   (f)	Preparing evaluations of contractor performance.

   4369.4. The CCO may issue a stop-work order at any time to suspend work
   pending a decision by the Procurement Executive of the Library.

   4369.5. The decision to issue a stop-work order shall be approved by a level
   higher than the CCO and shall not be used in place of a termination notice
   after a decision to terminate has been made.

   4369.6. Stop-work orders shall include the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the work to be suspended:
   
   
   
   (b)	Guidance to the contractor on any action taken to be taken on any
   subcontracts; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Any other suggestions to the contractor to minimize costs.

   4369.7. As soon as feasible after a stop-work order is issued, but before its
   expiration, the CCO shall take appropriate action to do one of the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Terminate the contract;
   
   
   
   (b)	Cancel the stop-work order; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Extend the period of the stop-work order, if necessary.

   4369.8. The CCO shall settle contract claims resulting in interruptions or
   delay of work caused by acts or failures of the Library.

   4369.9. The CCO shall include clauses in solicitations and contracts for
   Suspension of Work, Stop-Work Orders and Library Delay of Work.

   4369.10. At reasonable times and places, the Library or its designated agent
   may audit the books and records of any contractor, subcontractor, prospective
   contractor, or prospective subcontractor which is related to any contract with
   the Library when the Library has reason to believe one of the following
   circumstances may exist:
   
   
   
   (a)	A question as to the adequacy of accounting policies or cost systems;
   
   
   
   (b)	A substantial change in the methods or levels of operation;
   
   (c)	Previous unfavorable experience indicating doubtful reliability of
   estimating, accounting or procurement methods;
   
   
   
   (d)	A lack of cost experience due to the procurement of a new supply or
   service; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Other evidence that an audit is in the Library&#8217;s best interests as
   determined by the CCO.

   4369.11. Books or records shall be maintained by a contractor or subcontractor
   for a period of three (3) years from the date of final payment.

   4369.12. When the CCO requires an audit of a Library contractor, the Library
   may procure the services of an independent certified public accountant (CPA)
   firm to perform the audit or audit review. The audit or audit review shall be
   conducted in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
   shall include any tests necessary to render a CPA firm&#8217;s opinion on the
   fairness of the contractor&#8217;s financial presentation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 493 (January 18, 2008).
