                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACT TERMINATION (ยง 19-4372)

4372.1. The CCO shall terminate contracts for default or convenience only by
   written notice to the contractor. The CCO shall have the discretion to
   determine the manner in which the written termination notice is sent to the
   contractor.

   4372.2. The CCO may terminate contracts for default or convenience in whole or
   in part.

   4372.3. The termination notice shall state:
   
   
   
   (a)	The contract is being terminated for default or for convenience of the
   Library under the Library&#8217;s termination clause;
   
   
   
   (b)	The effective date of the termination;
   
   
   
   (c)	The extent of the termination; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any special instructions to the contractor.

   4372.4. The CCO shall have the discretion to amend or cancel a termination
   when it is in the best interest of the Library.

   4372.5. The CCO shall develop clauses for contractor default and Library
   convenience terminations to be included in all Library solicitations and
   contracts.

   4372.6. The CCO shall develop termination procedures for fixed-price and
   cost-reimbursement type contracts within 12 months from the date these
   regulations are promulgated.

   4372.7. The CCO shall negotiate and enter into settlement agreements for
   contracts terminated for convenience.

   4372.8. After receipt of the convenience termination notice, the contractor
   shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Stop work immediately on the terminated portion of the contract;
   
   
   
   (b)	Terminate all subcontracts related to the terminated portion of the
   contract;
   
   
   
   (c)	If partial termination, perform the portion of the contract not terminated
   and promptly submit any request for equitable adjustment of price for the
   continued portion, supported by any evidence to justify the increase in price,
   if applicable.
   
   
   
   (d)	Settle outstanding liabilities resulting from the termination of
   subcontracts or other commitment related to the terminated portion of the
   contract; and
   
   
   
   (e)	Promptly submit the contractor&#8217;s own settlement proposal with
   supporting documentation to the CCO.

   4372.9. The CCO shall include all termination notices and actions taken as a
   result of a termination in the contract file.

   4372.10. A subcontractor has no priority of contract or contractual rights
   against the Library upon the termination of a prime contract.

   4372.11. When a prime contract is terminated, the prime contractor and each
   subcontractor are responsible for the prompt settlement of their settlement
   proposals.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 493 (January 18, 2008).
