                                  DC REGULATIONS

SUBCONTRACTING (ยง 19-4364)

4364.1. The CCO may require his or her consent for the contractor to
   subcontract when the CCO determines that it would be in the best interest of
   the Library.

   4364.2. The requirement for consent to subcontract shall also apply to teaming
   arrangements and joint ventures.

   4364.3. The CCO shall require consent to subcontract in those instances where
   approval of subcontracts is required by this chapter or this section.

   4364.4. When a solicitation contains a requirement for consent to subcontract,
   before a contractor can enter into a subcontract, the contractor must submit
   to the CCO a written request for consent to subcontract and the CCO must grant
   consent in writing.

   4364.5. The CCO may require, as part of an invitation for bids (IFB) or
   request for proposals (RFP), that each bidder or offeror responding to a
   solicitation include in its response a list of proposed subcontractors,
   teaming arrangements or joint ventures, a list of tasks or items which the
   bidder or offeror intends to subcontract, team or joint venture with.

   4364.6. In determining whether to require consent to subcontract, the CCO
   shall consider the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	The complexity of the work to be done under subcontracts, teaming
   arrangements or joint ventures;
   
   
   
   (b)	The value of the subcontract, joint venture, teaming arrangement;
   
   
   
   (c)	Whether the Library&#8217;s interests can be adequately protected without
   requiring consent; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any other relevant factors.

   4364.7. The CCO shall ensure that any requirements for consent to subcontract
   are included in the solicitation for the prime contract.

   4364.8. After receipt of the contractor&#8217;s request for consent to
   subcontract, the CCO shall do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Promptly evaluate the contractor&#8217;s request for consent to
   subcontract;
   
   
   
   (b)	Obtain assistance in the evaluation from audit, pricing, technical, or
   other specialists as necessary;
   
   
   
   (c)	Notify the contractor in writing of consent to subcontract or the
   withholding of consent to subcontract, including any changes or corrections
   required.

   4364.9. The CCO&#8217;s consent to subcontract shall not constitute a
   determination of the acceptability of the subcontract terms, price or other
   allowability of costs unless the consent to subcontract specifies acceptance.

   4364.10. The CCO shall not consent to subcontract in any of the following
   circumstances:
   
   
   
   (a)	When the fee in a cost-reimbursement subcontract exceeds any applicable
   fee limitations;
   
   
   
   (b)	When payment under the subcontract is on a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost
   basis;
   
   
   
   (c)	When the CCO is obligated to deal directly with the subcontractor;
   
   
   
   (d)	When the results of arbitration, judicial determination, or voluntary
   settlement between the prime contractor and subcontractor are made binding on
   the Library; or
   
   (e)	When the subcontract violates any statute or the provisions of these
   regulations.

   4364.11. Prospective prime contractors shall be responsible for determining
   the responsibility of their subcontractors to include teaming arrangements and
   joint ventures.

   4364.12. Determinations of prospective subcontractor responsibility may affect
   the Library&#8217;s determination of the prospective prime contractor&#8217;s
   responsibility.

   4364.13. The CCO may require a prospective prime contractor to provide written
   evidence of a prospective subcontractor&#8217;s responsibility.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 493 (January 18, 2008).
