                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPETITIVE SEALED PROPOSALS (ยง 19-4317)

4317.1. If the CCO determines competitive sealed bidding is not appropriate,
   requirements shall be solicited utilizing the competitive sealed proposal
   (CSP) method of procurement.

   4317.2. A Request for Proposals (RFP) shall be used to solicit offers when the
   competitive sealed proposal method of procurement is utilized.

   4317.3. Each RFP shall be publicized in accordance with Section 4302.

   4317.4. The CCO may conduct a pre-proposal conference to brief prospective
   offerors after a solicitation has been issued and before proposals are
   submitted. The conference shall be announced to all prospective offerors known
   to have received a solicitation.

   4317.5. The CCO shall inform the pre-proposal conference attendees of the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	That remarks and explanations at the conference do not qualify or amend
   the terms of the solicitation; and
   
   
   
   (b)	That the solicitation and specifications remain unchanged unless the
   solicitation is amended in writing.

   4317.6. The CCO shall distribute each amendment to all prospective offerors
   within a reasonable time to allow consideration of the information before
   submitting their offers.

   4317.7. If a change to a solicitation is significant that it warrants complete
   revision, the CCO shall cancel the original solicitation and issue a new one,
   irrespective of the stage of the procurement. If the solicitation is reissued,
   it shall be publicized in accordance with Section 4302.
   
   
   
   All proposals received in response to the RFP shall be received by the exact
   date and time specified in the solicitation.

   4317.8. Each solicitation shall include all of the evaluation factors for
   award, including price, and the relative importance of each factor. The
   solicitation shall include a statement that the CCO may conduct discussions
   with all offerors within the competitive range, but that the Library reserves
   the right to evaluate initial proposals and make award without discussions.

   4317.9. The competitive range shall be determined based on cost or price and
   other evaluation factors stated in the solicitation, and shall include all
   proposals that have a reasonable chance of being selected for award. Cost or
   price shall always be an evaluation factor.

   4317.10. If discussions are held, the CCO shall hold such discussions with all
   offerors with proposals in the competitive range and do the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Lead and control all discussions;
   
   
   
   (b)	Advise offerors of any deficiencies in their proposal;
   
   
   
   (c)	Resolve any suspected mistakes without disclosing information concerning
   other proposals received or the evaluation process; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Provide offerors a reasonable opportunity to submit revisions to their
   proposal that may result from the discussions.

   4317.11. The CCO shall not assist an offeror in any way to revise its proposal
   to the level of other proposals. The CCO shall not disclose any information
   from other proposals that would result in improvement of a competing proposal.

   4317.12. Proposal evaluations shall be based on the evaluation factors
   outlined in the solicitation. Numerical, adjectival or color rating systems
   may be used by the Library in proposal evaluations. Factors not specified in
   the solicitation shall not be considered or utilized.

   4317.13. The CCO shall utilize discussions to correct any minor informalities
   or irregularities. If the CCO determines that award will be made without
   discussions, the procedures outlined in Section 4315.21 shall be used to
   correct any minor informalities or irregularities.

   4317.14. Communication with offerors to resolve minor informalities or
   irregularities shall be only for clarification, not for discussions.

   4317.15. Upon completion of negotiation, the CCO shall issue to all offerors
   in the competitive range a request for best and final offers. Best and final
   offers shall be submitted as prescribed by the CCO with a common date and time
   for receipt.

   4317.16. Offers submitted as best and final offers shall be considered
   complete and not subject to any additional negotiation, unless the CCO
   determines it is in the best interest of the Library to reopen negotiations.

   4317.17. The CCO has the right to reject all proposals in whole or in part
   when it is determined to be in the best interest of the Library.

   4317.18. The CCO shall award the contract to the offeror whose proposals
   offers the best value to the Library, based solely on the evaluation factors
   contained in the solicitation.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 493 (January 18, 2008).
