                                  DC REGULATIONS

BONDS, INSURANCE AND OTHER FINANCIAL PROTECTIONS (ยง 19-4357)

4357.1. The CCO has the discretion to require any types of security specified
   in this section for any solicitation or contract including the following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Bid bonds or proposal bonds;
   
   
   
   (b)	Performance or payment bonds for construction;
   
   
   
   (c)	Performance or payment bonds or other security for non-construction
   contracts;

   4357.2. The CCO shall consider the following factors in non-construction
   contracts:
   
   
   
   (a)	Whether Library property or funds are to be provided to the contractor for
   use in performing the contract or as partial compensation (such as retention
   of salvaged material);
   
   
   
   (b)	When a contractor sells assets to or merges with another business entity,
   whether the Library (after recognizing the other entity as the successor in
   interest) needs assurance that it is financially capable;
   
   
   
   (c)	Whether substantial progress payments are to be made before delivery of
   end items starts;
   
   
   
   (d)	Whether the contract is for dismantling, demolition, or removal of
   improvements; or
   
   
   
   (e)	Any other factors which might favor the use of security instruments to
   protect the best interests of the Library.

   4357.3. A payment security shall be required only when a performance security
   is required and the use of the payment security is in the best interests of
   the Library.

   4357.4. When a security is required by the Library, the CCO may accept any of
   the following types of security:
   
   
   
   (a)	A bond provided by a surety in accordance with Section 4358;
   
   
   
   (b)	A certified check or irrevocable letter of credit issued by an insured
   financial institution in the equivalent amount of the security; or
   
   
   
   (c)	United States government securities that are assigned to the Library which
   pledge the full faith and credit of the United States.

   4357.5. The CCO shall determine a contractor&#8217;s responsibility even
   though security has been or can be obtained.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 493 (January 18, 2008).
