                                  DC REGULATIONS

COMPETITIVE NEGOTIATION (§ 27-4721)

4721.1. The solicitation used to initiate a procurement conducted by
   competitive negotiation or competitive sealed proposals is known as a Request
   for Proposals (RFP).

   4721.2. If the Department issues an RFP, the Department shall establish a
   reasonable deadline for offerors’ submission of initial proposals. 
   Proposals shall be solicited from the maximum number of qualified sources
   consistent with the nature of goods and services which are the subject of the
   procurement.

   4721.3. The evaluation criteria used in procurements conducted by competitive
   negotiation or competitive sealed proposals include price or cost (including,
   but not limited to, hourly rates for services and fixed fees for cost
   reimbursement contracts) along with any other factors appropriate to the
   particular procurement (for example, the offeror’s technical approach, past
   performance, or status as a CBE or plans for subcontracting with such
   enterprises).

   4721.4. If the Department deems it advisable, the RFP may contain either an
   estimate that generally describes the price range contemplated by the
   Department or a funding limitation for the procurement.

   4721.5. The RFP shall specify all evaluation factors and their relative
   importance.  The RFP should also include:
   
   
   
   (a)	A description of the goods, services, or scope of construction work
   sought, including quantity or estimated quantity;
   
   
   
   (b)	The contract delivery schedule, including any permitted variations in the
   delivery schedule;
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of any special qualification requirements the contractor
   must satisfy;
   
   
   
   (d)	Instructions for submitting proposals including:
   
   
   
   	(1)	The deadline for proposal submission;
   
   
   
   	(2)	The method(s) for submitting proposals;
   
   
   
   	(3)	The information to be provided in the proposal, including any
   	requirements for past performance information or for 	subcontracting plans;
   and
   
   
   
   	(4)	Any representations or certifications the offeror must submit;
   
   
   
   (e)	The period during which proposals must remain open for acceptance; and
   
   
   
   (f)	The anticipated contract terms and conditions and the extent to which they
   are negotiable.

   4721.6. Any changes in the information set forth in an RFP must be made by an
   amendment to the RFP.  Amendments shall be made no less than three (3)
   business days before the proposal submission date specified by the RFP.

   4721.7. Proposals shall be submitted by a method specifically permitted by the
   RFP.

   4721.8. The Department shall evaluate proposals based solely on the evaluation
   criteria specified in the RFP.  Where past performance is an evaluation
   factor, the Department is not limited to considering only the information from
   references listed by the offeror.

   4721.9. After initial proposals are evaluated, the Contracting Officer may:
   
   
   
   (a)	Make an award based on initial proposals; or
   
   
   
   (b)	Establish a competitive range consisting of those proposals that remain
   under consideration, or a single proposal that remains under consideration,
   and initiate discussions with competitive range offerors.  A competitive range
   shall include all proposals that, in the Contracting Officer’s judgment,
   erring on the side of the offeror, could be awarded the procurement.

   4721.10. If the Contracting Officer elects to enter into discussions, such
   discussions shall be undertaken with offerors in the order of ranking of the
   prospective offerors based on the criteria for evaluation set forth in the
   RFP. Discussions with offerors may be written, including electronic or oral. 
   The primary objective of discussions is to maximize the Department’s ability
   to obtain the best value based on the evaluation factors set forth in the RFP.
    The scope and extent of discussions are a matter of Contracting Officer’s
   judgment.  The Contracting Officer may re-open negotiations with any
   prospective contractor with which it has terminated discussions.

   4721.11. After the proposals are submitted, the Contracting Officer may make
   changes to the general scope of the RFP and shall request that all offerors
   submit best and final offers by a common cut-off date.
   
   
   
   4721.12 	The contract shall be awarded to the qualified offeror whose offer is
   most advantageous to the Department under the RFP’s evaluation criteria.

   4721.13. The Contracting Officer shall prepare documentation explaining the
   basis for the contract award decision which shall be maintained in the
   contract file.  The contract shall be awarded by written notice to the
   responsive and responsible bidder whose proposal is most advantageous to the
   District.

   4721.14. The Contracting Officer shall endeavor to include with every RFP
   solicitation the form of the contract that the contractor will be required to
   enter into.  To the greatest extent possible, the Department should endeavor
   to provide clear and concise contract documents.  Contracts which consist of
   the solicitation, the proposal, and other documents attached together but not
   integrated into a single contract document are discouraged.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DC 8805
   (October 14, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 985, 1006 (February 10, 2012).
