                                  DC REGULATIONS

BASIC ORDERING AGREEMENTS (§ 27-4715)

4715.1. Under basic ordering agreements (also known as task order contracts or
   term contracts), the contractor’s performance obligations are triggered when
   the Department subsequently issues task orders pursuant to the contract.

   4715.2. Basic ordering agreements include:
   
   (a)	Requirements contracts; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Indefinite quantities contracts.

   4715.3. A requirement contract provides the mechanism for the Department to
   order from the contractor all of its requirements for designated supplies or
   services during a specified period subject to any maximum ordering limitation
   in the contract.  This type of contract should only be used when the
   Department determines that a requirement contract will provide superior
   economic benefits to an indefinite quantity contract as it locks the
   Department into one (1) source of supply for the goods or services required
   under the basic ordering agreement.  The CCO and the Contracting Officer must
   approve requirement contracts.

   4715.4. An indefinite quantity contract provides for an indefinite quantity,
   within specified limits, of supplies or services to be furnished during a
   fixed period.

   4715.5. An indefinite quantity contract:
   
   
   
   (a)	Requires the Department to order and the contractor to deliver at least
   the stated minimum quantity of supplies or services; and
   
   
   
   (b)	Requires the contractor to deliver any additional quantities the
   Department may order during the contract period subject to any maximum
   quantity limitations in the contract.

   4715.6. The Department may award a single indefinite quantity contract for
   particular goods or services, or may award multiple contracts and choose
   between the selected contractors in awarding subsequent delivery orders.

   4715.7. If an indefinite quantity contract is used, the Department shall
   establish, at the time the basic ordering agreements are awarded, a procedure
   by which work will be awarded under the basic ordering agreements (award
   procedure).

   4715.8. Generally, one (1) of the following three (3) award procedures shall
   be used for indefinite quantity contracts:
   
   
   
   (a)	The rotating award procedure, where work is assigned on a rotation basis
   (that is, the first task order is given to Contractor A, the second task order
   to Contractor B, and so on);
   
   
   
   (b)	The competitive award procedure, where the Department requests task order
   proposals from two (2) or more contractors holding an indefinite delivery
   contract; or
   
   
   
   (c)	Attempt to otherwise divide the work (for example, by geographic area or
   facility) equitably among the contractors.

   4715.9. The competitive award procedure is preferred.

   4715.10. If the competitive award procedure is used, each task order request
   shall specify:
   
   
   
   (a)	The specific goods or services required;
   
   
   
   (b)	A delivery date; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Such other information as the Department may reasonably request.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 8805
   (October 14, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 985, 1000 (February 10, 2012).
