                                  DC REGULATIONS

CONTRACT TERMINATION (§ 27-4729)

4729.1. All contracts awarded by the Department shall include “Termination
   for Default” and “Termination for Convenience” clauses specifically
   defining the Department’s termination rights.

   4729.2. When exercising the Department’s rights under a termination clause
   in the contract, the Contracting Officer shall provide the contractor with a
   written notice specifying:
   
   
   
   (a)	Whether the termination is for default or for convenience;
   
   
   
   (b)	The effective date of the termination;
   
   
   
   (c)	The extent of the termination if the termination is partial; and
   
   
   
   (d)	Any special instructions that apply to the termination (for example,
   instructions concerning the disposition of contract inventory).

   4729.3. After terminating a contract for convenience, the Contracting Officer
   shall request a settlement proposal from the contractor and shall attempt to
   negotiate a settlement that resolves all of the parties’ rights and
   liabilities except those arising from any portion of the contract still in
   effect.  If the parties negotiate a settlement, the Contracting Officer shall
   prepare a memorandum describing the principal elements of the settlement and
   shall include the memorandum in the contract file.

   4729.4. The Department may terminate, without liability, any contract if the
   contractor has been convicted of a crime arising out of or in connection with
   the procurement of any work to be done or any payment to be made under the
   contract, or there has been a violation of the PPRA.  The Director shall be
   entitled to recover from the contractor those sums outlined in section 903 of
   the PPRA in addition to any other rights or remedies provided by law.
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DC 8805
   (October 14, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 985, 1013 (February 10, 2012).
