                                  DC REGULATIONS

EMERGENCY PROCUREMENTS (§ 27-4719)

4719.1. The Contracting Officer may award contracts through an emergency
   procurement:
   
   
   
   	(a)  	When there is an imminent threat to the public, health, welfare,
   property 	or safety; or
   
   
   
   	(b)	To prevent or minimize serious disruption in agency operations.

   4719.2. Emergency procurements shall be made with as much competition as
   practicable under the circumstances, based on the judgment and determination
   of the Contracting Officer
   
   
   
   4719.3   	A written determination by the Contracting Officer supporting an
   emergency procurement shall include the following findings:
   
   
   
   (a)	The circumstances giving rise to the emergency procurement presenting an
   imminent threat to the public, health, welfare, property, or safety; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The circumstances that created a need for goods, services, or
   construction, which if not immediately filled, will endanger the continuation
   of an essential function of the Department.

   4719.4. The Contracting Officer shall not make a procurement under this
   section to meet a continuing need of the Department beyond what is necessary
   to meet the emergency condition.  Contracts awarded using emergency
   procurement procedures shall not exceed ninety (90) days.

   4719.5. Notice of all emergency procurements shall be posted on the
   Department’s website no more than seven (7) days after the contract is
   awarded and shall contain:
   
   
   
   (a)	A finding that circumstances giving rise to the emergency procurement
   present an imminent threat to the public, health, welfare, property, or
   safety, and have created a need for goods, services, or construction which, if
   not immediately filled, will endanger the continuation of an essential
   function of the Department;
   
   
   
   (b)	A description of the items procured;
   
   
   
   (c) 	The designated contractor; and
   
   
   
   (d)	A copy of the contract.

   4719.6. The Contracting Officer may issue oral orders or notices to proceed to
   contractors to provide services or goods to the District; provided, that the
   directive shall be reduced to writing within three (3) business days after
   issuance and funding for the services or goods provided shall be certified by
   the appropriate fiscal official.
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DC 8805
   (October 14, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 985, 1004 (February 10, 2012).
