                                  DC REGULATIONS

PUBLICIZING PROCUREMENT OPPORTUNITIES (§ 27-4710)

4710.1. The Department may use a variety of methods to publicize a
   procurement.  The specific method or methods used should be tailored to the
   particular procurement, taking into account factors such as the size of the
   procurement, the type of goods or services sought, the urgency associated with
   the requirement, and the most efficient means of disseminating information in
   the relevant market.  The methods available to publicize procurement
   opportunities offered by the Department include:
   
   
   
   	(a)	Print advertising;
   
   
   
   	(b)	Internet notices;
   
   
   
   	(c)	Developing source lists of qualified firms known to supply particular
   	categories of goods or services;
   
   
   
   	(d) 	Soliciting specific sources through written notices or telephone
   contacts; 	and
   
   
   
   	(e)	 Holding pre-bid or pre-proposal conferences.

   4710.2. The Department shall use its best efforts to provide, either
   electronically or in a paper format, a copy of solicitations to CBEs which the
   Department is aware may be capable of providing some or all of the services or
   goods required by a solicitation.

   4710.3. The Department shall use its best efforts to provide a copy of all
   solicitations, other than solicitations issued through its small purchase
   procedures, to the Department of Small and Local Business Development for
   distribution to CBE firms listed on the Department of Small and Local Business
   Development’s website that may be capable of providing some or all of the
   services or goods required by a solicitation.

   4710.4. The Department shall conduct outreach and provide information to CBEs
   on at least an annual basis.

   4710.5. In addition to publication or other method of publicizing the
   procurement opportunity described in subsection 4710.1, unless otherwise
   specified in this chapter, including as provided in subsection 4722.5, the
   Department shall also compile a list of at least three (3) vendors that the
   Department reasonably believes are qualified to provide the services or goods
   specified in a solicitation and shall provide those vendors with a copy of the
   solicitation.  If the Department is unable to locate at least three (3)
   potential vendors, the Department shall provide the solicitation to as many
   vendors as it can reasonably identify.

   4710.6. The Department shall provide public notice of an Invitation for Bid
   (IFB) for fourteen (14) days unless the contracting officer issues a
   determination and findings that it is appropriate to shorten the notice
   period.  In no event shall the public notice period for an IFB be less than
   three (3) days.

   4710.7. The Department shall provide public notice of a Request for Proposals
   (RFB) for twenty one (21) days unless the contracting officer issues a
   determination and findings that it is appropriate to shorten the notice
   period.  In no event shall the public notice period for an RFB be less than
   fourteen (14) days.

   4710.8. The Department shall not be required to provide public notice of
   solicitations issued through the procedures set forth in section 4722.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 8805
   (October 14, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 985, 994 (February 10, 2012).
