                                  DC REGULATIONS

SEALED BIDDING (§ 27-4720)

4720.1. The solicitation used to initiate a procurement conducted by
   competitive sealed bidding is known as an Invitation for Bids (IFB).

   4720.2. If the Department issues an IFB, the Department shall allow
   prospective bidders a reasonable time to prepare and submit bids.  Except in
   the event of an emergency, this time period shall be no less than ten (10)
   business days.

   4720.3. The evaluation factors used in sealed bid procurements are limited to
   price and price-related factors, including price evaluation preferences for
   CBEs.

   4720.4. The IFB shall specify:
   
   
   
   (a)	Any information necessary to explain how the Department will evaluate
   price (for example, whether option prices will be evaluated);
   
   
   
   (b)	Any price-related factors that will be evaluated and their relative
   importance in the overall evaluation scheme (for example, escalators);
   
   
   
   (c)	A description of the goods or services sought, including quantity
   requirements;
   
   
   
   (d)	The contract delivery schedule;
   
   
   
   (e)	A description of any special qualification requirements the contractor
   must satisfy;
   
   
   
   (f)	Instructions for submitting bids, including:
   
   
   
   	(1)	The deadline for bid submission;
   
   
   
   	(2)	The method(s) for submitting bids;
   
   
   
   	(3)	Any representations or certifications bidders must submit; and
   
   
   
   	(4)	any requirements for the submission of items such as bid samples,
   	subcontracting plans, or payment or performance bond;
   
   
   
   (g)	The period during which bids must remain open for acceptance; and
   
   
   
   (h)	The contract’s terms and conditions.

   4720.5. Any changes in the information set forth in an IFB must be made by an
   amendment to the IFB.

   4720.6. Bids shall be submitted by a method specifically permitted by the IFB
   (for example, hand delivery, mailing, electronic transmission, or fax).

   4720.7. A bid may be withdrawn or modified at any time before bid opening by
   any of the methods permitted for submitting bids.

   4720.8. A late bid, late modification, or withdrawal shall not be considered,
   except that the Department may accept a late modification to an otherwise
   successful bid that makes the bid more favorable to the Department.  A late
   bid is any bid received after the bid date, unless such delay is caused by the
   Department.

   4720.9. The Contracting Officer shall prepare and maintain in the contract
   file an abstract listing the bid prices.

   4720.10. The contract shall be awarded to the qualified bidder whose bid is
   responsible and responsive to the IFB and is most advantageous to the
   Department considering only price and the price-related evaluation factors
   identified in the IFB.

   4720.11. To be considered responsive, a bid must comply in all material
   respects with the IFB.   Responsiveness involves matters that relate to the
   bid itself as opposed to the responsibility or other qualifications of the
   bidder.  In determining whether a bid is responsive, the Contracting Officer
   has the discretion to permit correction of minor informalities or
   irregularities.

   4720.12. The Contracting Officer shall endeavor to include with every IFB
   solicitation the form of the contract that the contractor will be required to
   enter into.  To the greatest extent possible, the Department should endeavor
   to provide clear, concise contract documents.  Contracts which consist of the
   solicitation, the proposal, and other documents attached together but not
   integrated into a single contract document are discouraged.

   4720.13. Bids shall be opened publicly at a time and place provided for in the
   IFB and shall be open for public inspection.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DC 8805
   (October 14, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 985, 1005 (February 10, 2012).
