                                  DC REGULATIONS

PROJECT DELIVERY METHODS (§ 27-4714)

4714.1. Within the contract types described in sections 4711 through 4713, the
   Department may adopt a number of project delivery methods, including those set
   forth in subsection 4701.1 as may be in District’s best interest.

   4714.2. As part of the procurement planning process, the Director or Deputy
   Director, pursuant to a delegation from the Director to make such
   determinations, will determine the most appropriate delivery method for the
   project based on, among other considerations:
   
   
   
   	(a)	 The scope of work;
   
   
   
   	(b)	 The complexity of design required;
   
   
   
   	(c)	 Existing building or site conditions;
   
   
   
   	(d)	 Project delivery schedule;
   
   
   
   	(e)	Project budget;
   
   
   
   	(f)	Existing market conditions; and
   
   
   
   	(g)	Other relevant considerations.

   4714.3. The general types of delivery methods include:
   
   
   
   (a)	Design-Bid-Build:  Under this delivery method, the Department retains an
   architect to design the project.  Once the design is complete, the drawings
   are put out to bid.  This delivery method results in a fixed-price or lump sum
   type contract;
   
   
   
   (b)	Construction Manager at Risk:  Under this delivery method, the Department
   will retain an architect to design the project.  However, shortly after the
   design begins, the Department will engage a contractor to act as a
   construction manager.  Typically, the contractor’s work is divided into two
   (2) phases.  During the first, or preconstruction, phase, the builder will
   work with the architect to ensure that the design is constructible, properly
   coordinated, and affordable.  During the second, or construction, phase, the
   contractor is required to construct the project.  At this point, the
   contractor may be required to provide the Department with a guaranteed maximum
   price.  In order to ensure that costs are properly controlled, the Department
   requires that the contractor bid its fee upfront and that all of the major
   trade packages be competitively bid by the contractor;
   
   
   
   (c)	Construction Manager with Design Assist:  Under this delivery method, the
   Department conducts the project in a manner similar to the Construction
   Manager at Risk approach.  However, in the Construction Manager with Design
   Assist approach, a portion of the design work — typically the mechanical,
   electrical, and plumbing systems — is managed by the contractor;
   
   
   
   (d)	Design-Build:  Under this approach, the Department retains a single entity
   to be responsible for the design and construction activities.  Work under the
   Design-Build approach is typically divided into two (2) phases: 
   preconstruction and construction.  The contractor is required to bid its fees
   upfront and all of the major trade packages must be competitively bid as well;
   
   
   
   (e)	Modified Design-Build:  Under this approach, the Department uses a
   bridging methodology where it will engage an architect during the early stages
   of the project (referred to as design development) and then assign the
   architect’s contract to the contractor at the appropriate stage of the
   project.  The remainder of the project then proceeds under the Design-Build
   approach;
   
   
   
   (f)	Design-Build-Finance-Operate-Maintain:  Under this approach, the
   Department retains a single entity to be responsible for the design and
   construction activities.  Work under the Design-Build approach is typically
   divided into two (2) phases:  preconstruction and construction.  The
   contractor is required to bid its fees upfront and all of the major trade
   packages must be competitively bid as well.  In addition, the contractor would
   be responsible for operating and maintaining the facility.  Payment for design
   and construction services would be paid out over a negotiated term; and
   
   
   
   (g)	Design-Build-Operate-Maintain:  Under this approach, the Department
   retains a single entity to be responsible for the design and construction
   activities.  Work under the Design-Build approach is typically divided into
   two (2) phases:  preconstruction and construction.  The contractor is required
   to bid its fees upfront and all of the major trade packages must be
   competitively bid as well.  In addition, the contractor would be responsible
   for operating and maintaining the facility.

   4714.4. The Department may combine aspects of the methods listed in subsection
   4714.3 or alter aspects of these methods if doing so is in the best interest
   of the District.

   4714.5. Contractors, including architects, construction managers, and design
   builders, required to facilitate these delivery methods shall be selected in
   accordance with the contracting procedures in sections  4717 through 4722.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 8805
   (October 14, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 985, 998 (February 10, 2012).
