                                  DC REGULATIONS

SIMPLIFIED CONTRACTING PROCEDURES (§ 27-4722)

4722.1. The basic purposes of simplified contracting procedures are to:
   
   
   
   (a)	Promote economy, efficiency, and innovation in contracting;
   
   
   
   (b)	Reduce administrative costs to the Department; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Avoid unnecessary burdens or complexities that could reduce competition,
   such as by deterring smaller contractors from participating in a procurement.

   4722.2. Simplified contracting procedures may be used only with contacts that
   have an estimated value equal to or less than one hundred thousand dollars
   ($100,000).

   4722.3. The Contracting Officer shall conduct simplified procurements in the
   manner that is most suitable, efficient, and economical based on the
   circumstances of each acquisition.  As appropriate, the Contracting Officer
   may elect to use or adapt procedures that are part of the sealed bidding or
   competitive negotiation process.

   4722.4. On a simplified procurement, the Contracting Officer shall:
   
   
   
   (a)	Promote competition to the extent practicable and efficient;
   
   
   
   (b)	Establish reasonable deadlines for the submission of responses to
   solicitations; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Evaluate quotations or offers in an impartial manner on the basis
   established in the solicitation.

   4722.5. If a contract that has an estimated value of more the ten thousand
   dollars ($10,000) is procured through the simplified contracting procedures,
   the Department shall obtain written quotes from at least two (2) potential
   contractors.

   4722.6. If a contract that has an estimated value of less than ten thousand
   dollars ($10,000) is procured through the simplified contracting procedures,
   the Department need only obtain a written quote from a single potential
   contractor.

   4722.7. The Contracting Officer may solicit quotations orally in appropriate
   cases when doing so is practical and economical.  When soliciting quotations
   orally, the Contracting Officer shall require contractors to respond in
   writing.

   4722.8. An oral solicitation shall provide a clear description of the
   Department’s requirements (for example the type of goods or services sought,
   quantities, and schedule) and the basis on which the award will be made.

   4722.9. Written solicitations shall provide a complete statement of relevant
   information without being unnecessarily lengthy.  A written solicitation
   should include the same information required in an oral solicitation plus the
   following:
   
   
   
   (a)	Anticipated contract terms and conditions, including the extent to which
   they are negotiable;
   
   
   
   (b)	Applicable certifications or representations; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Instructions for submitting responses.
   
   
   
   The basis for an award may be price or cost alone or price and cost combined
   with other factors.  Solicitations are not required to state the relative
   importance assigned to each evaluation factor.

   4722.10. The price and cost combined with other terms of the award shall be
   set forth in a written contract or purchase order.  The Contracting Officer
   shall include a statement in the contract file briefly explaining the basis
   for the award decision.

   4722.11. No later than ten (10) days after award of any contract pursuant to
   the procedures outlined in this section 4722, the Department shall post on the
   Department’s website the name of the contractor to whom the contract was
   awarded, a description of the services or goods procured and the value of the
   contract.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DC 8805
   (October 14, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 985, 1009 (February 10, 2012).
