                                  DC REGULATIONS

TRANSFER OF CONTRACTS (§ 27-4731)

4731.1. Procurements pending on October 1, 2011, and transferred to the
   Department on that date shall be completed, including the award of contracts
   pursuant thereto, in accordance with the procurement rules and regulations
   pursuant to which those procurements were commenced.

   4731.2. Following the transfer of duties, responsibilities, contracts and
   procurements to the Department upon its creation, contracts or pending
   procurements related to facilities maintenance and/or capital projects held by
   other District agencies may be assigned to the Department in accordance with
   the provisions of this section.

   4731.3. The CCO shall review the proposed procurement or contract and
   determine whether it is in the best interest of the Department to accept the
   assignment of the procurement or contract or to terminate the procurement or
   contract.

   4731.4. If the Department determines it is in its best interest to accept the
   assignment of a contract or procurement, the Department shall have the
   authority to modify the contract or procurement so as to conform with the best
   practices and procedures employed by the Department on its own procurements.

   4731.5. Assignment of contracts or procurements to the Department shall not
   confer on the Department any authority not otherwise granted to it by law or
   regulation.  Acceptance of an assignment by the Department shall be predicated
   on the Department’s statutory authority to conduct the work contemplated by
   the assigned contract or procurement.

   4731.6. Assignment of a contract or procurement shall not operate to transfer
   funds to support the assigned contract or procurement.  Funds shall be
   transferred pursuant to an intra-District memorandum of understanding,
   reprogramming, or other appropriate process.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DC 8805
   (October 14, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 985, 1014 (February 10, 2012).
