                                  DC REGULATIONS

RESPONSIBILITY (§ 27-4706)

4706.1. To receive a contract from the Department, a contractor must be
   responsible.  To be considered responsible, a contractor must:
   
   
   
   (a)	Have or can obtain the necessary financial, technical, organizational,
   experience, accounting, operational control skills, resources, and the
   facilities and equipment necessary to perform the contract in accordance with
   its terms;
   
   
   
   (b)	Be able to comply with the proposed delivery or performance schedule;
   
   
   
   (c)	Have a satisfactory performance record;
   
   
   
   (d)	Have a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics;
   
   
   
   (e)	Have not exhibited a pattern of overcharging the District;
   
   
   
   (f)	Have a satisfactory record of compliance with the law;
   
   
   
   (g)	Have not been suspended, debarred, or otherwise ineligible to receive
   contracts from the District Government or the federal Government;
   
   
   
   (h)	Meet any other qualification criteria that may be imposed by applicable
   laws or regulations; and
   
   
   
   (i)	Provide adequate evidence that he or she has paid and filed all applicable
   District of Columbia and federal taxes and tax returns.

   4706.2. Prior to awarding a contract in excess of one hundred thousand dollars
   ($100,000), the Contracting Officer shall determine whether the contractor is
   responsible.  The Contracting Officer shall require prospective contractors to
   provide information regarding their responsibility to the Department and to
   certify the accuracy of such information.

   4706.3. The responsibility of prospective contractors shall be determined on a
   solicitation-by-solicitation basis.

   4706.4. The Contracting Officer shall make a written determination if the
   contractor is found to be non-responsible.  Depending on the level of
   formality of the contract and at the Contracting Officer’s discretion, the
   Contracting Officer may make a written determination if the contractor is
   found to be responsible.

   4706.5. In evaluating a prospective contractor’s responsibility, a
   Contracting Officer may request information from the contractor and may also
   consider information available from other sources, including the general
   public.  Where necessary, the Contracting Officer may also perform a pre-award
   survey involving interviews with contractor personnel or visits to the
   contractor’s facilities.  Information on the capabilities and suitability of
   proposed subcontractors also may be considered in evaluating responsibility.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 8805
   (October 14, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 985, 989 (February 10, 2012).
