                                  DC REGULATIONS

PREPARING SOLICITATIONS (§ 27-4709)

4709.1. After conducting market research, the Contracting Officer shall make a
   determination as to which procurement method identified in these regulations
   is most beneficial to the Department.  The Department will ordinarily prepare
   a solicitation requesting responses; however, the Department may determine to
   purchase the required goods or services through its small purchase procedures
   or from a federal or District supply schedule contract.

   4709.2. When the Department issues a solicitation, its length and contents
   will depend on factors such as the size of the procurement, the nature and
   complexity of the goods or services, the contracting procedure to be used, and
   the contract type.  In general, however, a solicitation should clearly
   describe the Department’s needs (for example, by providing a statement of
   work outlining the type of services required or information specifying product
   characteristics or capabilities) and its evaluation criteria.

   4709.3. In preparing a solicitation, the Department should seek to enhance
   competition by carefully scrutinizing and eliminating, to the extent possible,
   any unnecessary requirements that may restrict the number of prospective
   sources or the range of goods or services they can offer.  Such provisions may
   include, for example, technical specifications that unnecessarily limit the
   competitive field, unnecessarily aggressive delivery schedules, or burdensome
   terms and conditions that might deter smaller companies from competing.

   4709.4. The Department may issue solicitations in paper form or
   electronically.  The Department may also use oral solicitations where
   efficient and practical (for example, where the procurement does not involve
   extensive specifications, detailed evaluation criteria, or numerous line
   items), and those oral solicitations shall direct that proposals be submitted
   in writing.  Oral solicitations shall not be used for contracts that have an
   estimated value in excess of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).

   4709.5. The Department may cancel a solicitation or reject all bids or
   proposals received at any time before the contract award when cancellation is
   in the Department’s best interests.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 8805
   (October 14, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 985, 993 (February 10, 2012).
