                                  DC REGULATIONS

COST REIMBURSEMENT CONTRACTS (§ 27-4713)

4713.1. Cost reimbursement contracts provide for the contractor to recover the
   reimbursable costs it incurs in contract performance, plus a fee (that is, a
   profit).

   4713.2. A reimbursable cost shall be:
   
   
   
   (a)	Reasonable in nature and amount;
   
   
   
   (b)	Properly allocable to the contract;
   
   
   
   (c)	Determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
   and
   
   
   
   (d)	Identified as reimbursable under the terms of the particular contract.

   4713.3. To ensure that the Department’s payment obligations are not
   open-ended, a cost reimbursement contract must specify an estimated total cost
   that the contractor cannot exceed (the not-to-exceed limit), except at its own
   risk, without the Contracting Officer’s written approval.  Because the
   contractor can cease performance once it reaches the estimated total cost,
   unless the Contracting Officer approves an increase, it is not obligated to
   complete the contract work unless it can do so within the not-to-exceed limit.

   4713.4. Cost reimbursement contracts can take three (3) forms:
   
   
   
   (a)	Cost-plus-fixed-fee;
   
   
   
   (b)	Cost-plus-incentive-fee; and
   
   
   
   (c)	Cost-plus-award-fee.

   4713.5. The differences between the types of cost reimbursement contracts
   listed in subsection 4713.4 relate to the manner in which the contractor’s
   fee is determined.

   4713.6. A cost-plus-fixed-fee contract provides for a fee that is fixed at the
   contract’s inception and is not subject to adjustment unless the contract is
   modified to change the contract work.

   4713.7. A cost-plus-incentive-fee contract provides for a fee that generally
   is determined by applying a formula based on the relationship between the
   contractor’s total reimbursable cost and a total target cost, subject to a
   specified minimum and maximum.  These contracts can also include incentive
   formulas based on the contractor’s schedule or technical performance.

   4713.8. A cost-plus-award-fee contract provides for:
   
   
   
   (a)	A base fee fixed at the contract’s inception; and
   
   
   
   (b)	An award fee that the contractor may earn in whole or in part during
   performance, which is designed to motivate superior performance.

   4713.9. The award fee in a cost-plus-award-fee contract is determined
   unilaterally by the Department, based on its judgment and evaluation of how
   well the contractor has performed in relation to the award fee criteria
   identified in the contract.  In no event shall the total award fee available
   to the contractor exceed ten percent (10%).

   4713.10. In appropriate circumstances, the Department may include a guaranteed
   maximum price (GMP) in a cost reimbursement contract.  A GMP differs from a
   not-to-exceed amount in that a contractor is required to complete performance
   of the base scope of work required under the contract for an amount that does
   not exceed the GMP.  Under such an approach, if the total cost exceeds the
   GMP, the contractor shall be required to complete performance of the base
   scope of work at its own cost and expense.
   
   
   
   4713.11 	The Department shall only award a cost-reimbursement type contract
   pursuant to an IFB, RFP, or a sole source procurement after making a
   determination and findings that that a cost-reimbursement type contract is
   likely to cost less than any other type of contract and that it is impractical
   to obtain the goods or services of the kind or quality required except under a
   cost-reimbursement type contract.
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Notice of Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 8805
   (October 14, 2011)[EXPIRED]; as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking
   published at 59 DCR 985, 997 (February 10, 2012).
