                                  DC REGULATIONS

DRAWING ON FINANCIAL ASSURANCE MECHANISM (ยง 20-6712)

6712.1. The Director shall require a guarantor, surety, or issuer of a letter
   of credit to place the amount of funds stipulated by the Director, up to the
   limit of funds provided by the financial assurance mechanism, into the standby
   trust if both of the following occur:
   
   
   
   (a)	The owner fails to establish alternate financial assurance within sixty
   (60) days after receiving notice of cancellation of the guarantee, surety
   bond, letter of credit, or, as applicable, other financial assurance
   mechanism; and
   
   
   
   (b)	The Director determines or suspects that a release from an underground
   storage tank covered by the mechanism has occurred and so notifies the owner
   or operator, or the owner or operator has notified the Director of a release
   from an underground storage tank covered by the assurance mechanism.

   6712.2. The Director shall require a guarantor, surety, or person issuing a
   letter of credit to place a specified amount of funds, up to the limit of
   funds provided by the financial assurance mechanism, into a standby trust if
   either of the following occurs:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Director makes a final determination that a release has occurred, that
   corrective action for the release is needed, and the owner or operator, after
   appropriate notice and opportunity to comply, has not conducted the required
   corrective action under Chapter 62; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The Director has received either of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Certification that a third-party liability claim should be paid, in
   accordance with ยง 6712.3(b)(1); or
   
   
   
   (2)	A valid final court order establishing a judgment against the owner or
   operator, and the Director determines that the owner or operator has not
   satisfied the judgment.

   6712.3. The Director may draw on a standby trust fund when either of the
   following occurs:
   
   
   
   (a)	The Director makes a final determination that a release has occurred and
   immediate or long-term corrective action for the release is needed, and the
   owner or operator, after appropriate notice and opportunity to comply, has not
   conducted corrective action as required under Chapter 62; or
   
   
   
   (b)	The Director has received either of the following:
   
   
   
   (1)	Certification from the owner, the third-party liability claimant(s), and
   the attorney(s) representing the owner and the third-party liability
   claimant(s) that a third-party liability claim should be paid. The
   certification shall be in the form prescribed in Appendix 67-9 to this
   chapter; or
   
   
   
   (2)	A valid final court order establishing a judgment against the owner or
   operator for bodily injury or property damage caused by an accidental release
   from an underground storage tank covered by financial assurance under this
   chapter, and the Director determines that the owner or operator has not
   satisfied the judgment.

   6712.4. If the Director determines that the amount of corrective action costs
   and third-party liability claims eligible for payment as provided in ยง
   6712.3(b) of this section may exceed the balance of the standby trust fund and
   the obligation of the provider of financial assurance, the first priority for
   payment shall be corrective action costs necessary to protect human health and
   the environment.

   6712.5. The Director shall pay third-party liability claims in the order in
   which the Director receives certifications and valid court orders under ยง
   6712.3(b).
   
   
   
   	SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 43 DCR 2799 (May 24, 1996),
   incorporating text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 5765, 5779
   (October 20, 1995); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 7699
   (October 1, 1999).
